Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 10. OFFICE OF THE INTERCONNECTION --> OA 10.2.1 Financial 
Interests 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
10.2.1 Financial Interests: 
 
No Board Member, officer or employee of the Office of the Interconnection, or spouse or 
dependent children thereof, shall own, control or hold with power to vote Prohibited Securities 
subject to the following: 
 
1.  Each Office of the Interconnection Board Member, officer, or employee or spouse or 
dependent children thereof, shall divest of those Prohibited Securities within six (6) months 
of: (i) the time of his affiliation or employment with the Office of the Interconnection, (ii) the 
time a new Member is added to this Agreement, a new Eligible Customer begins taking 
service under the Tariff or a Nonincumbent Developer is pre-qualified as eligible to be a 
Designated Entity pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, where the Board Member, 
officer or employee of the Office of the Interconnection, or spouse or dependent children 
thereof owns such Prohibited Securities; or (iii) the time of receipt of such Prohibited 
Securities (e.g. marriage, bequest, gift, etc.).  
 
2.  Nothing in this section 10.2.1 shall be interpreted to preclude a Board Member, officer or 
employee of the Office of the Interconnection, or spouse or dependent children thereof, from 
indirectly owning publicly traded Prohibited Securities through a mutual fund or similar 
arrangement (other than a fund or arrangement specifically targeted towards, or principally 
comprised of, entities in the electric industry or the electric utility industry, or any segments 
thereof) under which the Board Member, officer or employee of the Office of the 
Interconnection, or spouse or dependent children thereof, does not control the purchase or 
sale of such Prohibited Securities.  Any such ownership, including the nature and conditions 
of the interest, must be disclosed to the Office of the Interconnection’s director, regulatory 
oversight and compliance who will report it to the PJM Board. 
 
3.  Ownership of Prohibited Securities as part of a pension plan or fund of a Member, 
Eligible Customer or Nonincumbent Developer shall be permitted.  Any such ownership, 
including the nature and conditions of the interest, must be disclosed to the Office of the 
Interconnection’s director, regulatory oversight and compliance who will report it to the 
PJM Board. 
 
4.  Ownership of Prohibited Securities by a spouse of a Board Member, officer or employee 
of the Office of the Interconnection who is employed by a Member, Eligible Customer or 
Nonincumbent Developer and is required to purchase and maintain ownership of Securities 
of such Member, Eligible Customer or Nonincumbent Developer as a part of his or her 
employment shall be permitted.  Any such ownership by a spouse, including the nature and 
conditions of the interest, must be disclosed to the Office of the Interconnection’s director, 
regulatory oversight and compliance who will report it to the PJM Board. 
 
5.  A Board Member shall disclose to the PJM Board if the Board Member is aware that 
he or she, or an immediate family member, has a financial interest in a Member, Eligible 
Customer or Nonincumbent Developer, or their Affiliates that is subject to a matter before 
the PJM Board.  The chair of the PJM Board Governance Committee and the Office of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 10. OFFICE OF THE INTERCONNECTION --> OA 10.2.1 Financial 
Interests 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
Interconnection legal counsel shall consult with the Board Member to determine whether the 
PJM Board Member should be recused from the PJM Board deliberations and decision 
making regarding the matter before the PJM Board. 

