Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 14B BILLING AND PAYMENT --> OA 14B.1 Billing Procedure: 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1431-000 - Page 1 
14B.1 Billing Procedure:   
 
PJMSettlement shall issue bills and billing statements pursuant to the provisions in this section 14B 
on behalf of itself and as agent for the Office of the Interconnection, as applicable.  Payment of bills 
pursuant to this section 14B shall be made for the benefit of PJMSettlement and the Office of the 
Interconnection, as applicable.   
 
(a)  Monthly Bills.   By the fifth Business Day of each month, PJM Settlement, in its own name 
and as agent for the Office of the Interconnection, as applicable, shall issue a bill to Members and 
other entities for monthly activity and detailing the charges and credits for all services furnished 
under this Agreement, the PJM Tariff and any service or rate schedule during the preceding 
month (“billing month”), excluding amounts billed pursuant to weekly bills for activity during 
the preceding month.   
 
(b)  Weekly Bills.  By 5:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time each Tuesday (or Wednesday in the 
event that a Tuesday is a holiday), PJMSettlement, in its own name and as agent for the Office of 
the Interconnection, as applicable, will issue a weekly bill to Members and other entities for all 
activity for certain services furnished under this Agreement, the PJM Tariff and any service or 
rate schedule for the days of the billing month during the week ending the prior Wednesday.  The 
services for which such weekly bills shall be issued are set forth in PJM Manual 29.   
 
(c)  Billing Statement.  PJMSettlement, in its own name and as agent for the Office of the 
Interconnection, as applicable, shall provide Members and other entities with billing statements at 
the time of issuance of the monthly and weekly bills, reflecting, in the form and manner set forth 
in PJM Manuals, the Member’s or other entity’s activity during the billing month and amounts 
due, net of activity previously billed.   
 
(d)  Market Suspensions: For a Market Suspension that is less than or equal to 24 consecutive 
hours and where Day-ahead Prices and all data necessary to calculate the services is available in 
advance of the time needed for processing the bill, the timelines listed in subsections (a) and (b) 
shall apply.  For all other Market Suspensions, billing activity as defined in subsection (b) will be 
included in a weekly bill that is issued at least five business days from the date on which PJM 
Settlement receives all data necessary to calculate the services included in the weekly bill for 
such Market Suspension. If there are no remaining weekly bills for the billing month associated 
with such Market Suspension, the billing activity as defined in subsection (b) will be billed in the 
next monthly bill that is issued at least five business days from the date on which PJM 
Settlement receives all data necessary to calculate the services. All other billing services for such 
Market Suspension will be billed within three calendar months after the calendar month that 
included such Market Suspension. 

