Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 14B BILLING AND PAYMENT --> OA 14B.2 Payments: 
Effective Date: 10/28/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2714-000 - Page 1 
14B.2 Payments:   
 
(a)  Monthly Bills.  Net amounts due to PJMSettlement, in its own name or as agent for the LLC, as 
applicable, pursuant to a monthly bill shall be due and payable by the Member or other entity no 
later than noon Eastern Prevailing Time on the due date of the first weekly bill issued for activity 
in the month that the monthly bill is issued. It is possible, due to the timing of holidays, that the 
billing and payment cycle for monthly bills stated here would call for payment of a monthly bill 
on a Friday that occurs less than three Business Days after the issuance of the bill by PJM.  
Where this occurs, the payment period of the monthly bill will be extended such that payment 
will be due when payment for the second weekly bill is due. 
 
(b)  Weekly Bills.  Net amounts due to PJMSettlement, in its own name or as agent for the LLC, as 
applicable, pursuant to a weekly bill shall be due and payable by the Member or other entity no 
later than noon Eastern Prevailing Time on the third Business Day following the issuance of the 
weekly bill.  Weekly bills issued after 5:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time shall be considered to 
be issued the following Business Day.  
 
 (i)  Municipal Electric Systems. 
 
Recognizing that municipal electric systems may, at times, face unique circumstances 
that could temporarily prevent their ability to make payments on a weekly bill issued 
pursuant to Section 14B.1 when due, the LLC may allow a municipal electric system to 
make arrangements with PJM whereby PJM would extend trade credit to the municipal 
electric system sufficient to enable it to make payment on a weekly bill  provided that the 
following conditions are met: 
 
(a) the LLC determines, in its sole discretion, that it has sufficient excess working 
capital available to complete financial settlement with other market participants; 
 
(b) the municipal electric system reimburses PJM for the actual cost of such 
working capital; 
 
(c) the municipal electric system provides PJM with a binding representation that 
it has all legal right and authority to enter into the arrangement with PJM; 
 
(d) PJMSettlement will continue to issue weekly bills to the municipal electric 
system in accordance with Section 14B.1 above and the municipal electric system 
will make payment as due under the weekly bills using the proceeds it obtains 
under its arrangement with PJM.  Reimbursement of these amounts, including 
PJM’s actual costs of working capital, shall be due from the municipal electric 
system at the time payment is due for the invoice issued under Section 14B.2(a); 
 
(e) the aggregate of all financed amounts and accrued obligations shall not exceed 
the Working Credit Limit available to the municipal electric system; 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 14B BILLING AND PAYMENT --> OA 14B.2 Payments: 
Effective Date: 10/28/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2714-000 - Page 2 
(f) the municipal electric system provides the LLC with at least one week of 
notice (though PJM may waive this provision), and; 
 
(g) the accumulated duration of such postponed payments shall not exceed three 
months in a rolling twelve-month period. 
 
PJM may terminate this payment option at any time it determines its excess working 
capital is no longer sufficient to allow further or continued extension financing.  In such 
cases, PJM shall attempt to give five Business Days, but not less than three Business 
Days notice to the affected municipal electric system, and may call for immediate 
reimbursement of any outstanding amounts owed by the municipal electric system.   
 
(c)  Form of Payments.  All payments tendered in satisfaction of a Member’s or other entity’s 
obligations to PJMSettlement or the LLC shall be made in the form of immediately available 
funds payable to PJMSettlement, or by wire transfer to a bank named by PJMSettlement.   
 
(d)  Payments by PJMSettlement.  Unless delayed by unforeseen events, payments made by 
PJMSettlement, in its own name or as agent for the LLC, for amounts due to Members and other 
entities shall be paid no later than 5:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time on the Business Day 
following the payment due date for net amounts owed to PJMSettlement, in its own name or as 
agent for the LLC, as specified above.   
 
(e)  Payment Calendar.  A comprehensive billing and settlement calendar will be posted on the 
LLC’s website prior to March 31 for the upcoming June – May annual period to communicate 
the schedule of holidays for settlement and billing purposes. 
 
(f)  Late Payments.  In the event that a Member, or other entity, is delinquent in paying the 
amount set forth in its weekly or monthly bill two or more times within any rolling twelve (12) 
month period, PJMSettlement, in its own name or s agent for the LLC, may assess, in addition to 
the interest on each late payment as provided for in Section 7.2 of this Tariff, a late payment 
charge for a second and any subsequent failure to pay on time during such twelve (12) month 
period (a “Late Payment Charge”).  The applicable Late Payment Charge will be assessed in an 
amount equal to the greater of:  (i) two percent (2%) of the total amount set forth in the monthly 
or weekly bill that the Transmission Customer or other entity has been late in paying, or (ii) 
$1,000; up to a maximum of $100,000 per late bill payment.  For the sole purpose of application 
of this Section 7.1A(f), weekly and monthly bills that are due on the same date shall be 
considered to be one bill; moreover, the term “on time” shall mean payment received on the date 
due; and “delinquent” shall mean any payment received on a day subsequent to the date due. 
 
Late Payment Charges that are collected pursuant to this Section 7.1A(f) shall be credited to 
PJMSettlement administrative costs contemplated under Schedule 9 of this Tariff. 

