Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 15. ENFORCEMENT OF OBLIGATIONS --> OA 15.1 Failure to Meet 
Obligations 
Effective Date: 4/8/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1058-001 - Page 1 
15.1 Failure to Meet Obligations. 
 
15.1.1 Suspension and Termination of Market Participant Rights. 
 
PJM may limit, suspend or terminate a Market Participant’s right to participate in  any PJM 
Market if it determines that the Market Participant does not continue to meet the obligations set 
forth in any of the Agreements, including but not limited to the obligation to be in compliance 
with the terms, or operating characteristics of any of its prior scheduled transactions in any 
market operated by PJM, the creditworthiness requirements set forth in Tariff, Attachment Q 
and/or the obligation to make timely payment, provided that PJM and/or PJMSettlement has 
notified the Market Participant of any such deficiency and afforded the Market Participant a 
reasonable opportunity to cure pursuant to section 15.1.5 below, or Tariff, Attachment Q, as 
applicable.  PJM shall reinstate a Market Participant’s right to participate in any PJM Market 
upon a determination by PJM and/or PJMSettlement that the Market Participant has, within the 
parameters of its opportunity to cure provided pursuant to section 15.1.5 below, or Tariff, 
Attachment Q, as applicable, satisfied the applicable requirements and is in compliance with the 
obligations set forth in the Agreements. 
 
15.1.2 [Reserved for Future Use] 
 
15.1.3 Payment of Bills. 
 
Members and Participants shall make full and timely payment, in accordance with the terms 
specified by PJM, of all bills rendered in connection with or arising under or from any of the 
Agreements, any service or rate schedule, any tariff, or any services performed by PJM or 
transactions with PJMSettlement, notwithstanding any disputed amount, but any such payment 
shall not be deemed a waiver of any right with respect to such dispute.  Any Member or 
Participant that fails to make full and timely payment to PJMSettlement (of amounts owed either 
directly to PJMSettlement or PJMSettlement as agent for PJM) or otherwise fails to meet its 
financial or other obligations to a Member, PJMSettlement, or PJM under any of the 
Agreements, shall, in addition to any requirement set forth in Operating Agreement, section 15.1 
and upon expiration of the cure period specified in section 15.1.5 below, be in default.   
 
15.1.4  Breach Notification and Remedy 
 
If PJM or PJMSettlement concludes, upon its own initiative or the recommendation of or 
complaint by the Members Committee or any Member, that a Member or Participant is in breach 
of any of its obligation under any of the Agreements, including, but not limited to, the obligation 
to make timely payment and the obligation to meet PJM’s creditworthiness standards and to 
otherwise comply with PJM’s credit policies, PJM and/or PJMSettlement shall so notify such 
Member or Participant.  The notified Member or Participant may remedy such asserted breach 
by:  (i) paying all amounts assertedly due, along with interest on such amounts calculated in 
accordance with the methodology specified for interest on refunds in FERC’s regulations at 18 
C.F.R. § 35.19a(a)(2)(iii); and (ii) demonstration to the satisfaction of PJM and/or 
PJMSettlement that the Member or Participant has taken appropriate measures to meet any other 
obligation of which it was deemed to be in breach; provided, however, that any such payment or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 15. ENFORCEMENT OF OBLIGATIONS --> OA 15.1 Failure to Meet 
Obligations 
Effective Date: 4/8/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1058-001 - Page 2 
demonstration may be subject to a reservation of rights, if any, to subject such matter to the PJM 
Dispute Resolution Procedures; and provided, further, that any such determination by PJM 
and/or PJMSettlement may be subject to review by the PJM Board upon request of the Member 
or Participant involved or PJM and/or PJMSettlement.   
 
15.1.5 Default Notification and Remedy 
 
If a Member or Participant has not remedied a breach, as described in section 15.1.4 above, by 
4:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time on the first Business Day following PJM’s or 
PJMSettlement’s issuance of a written notice of breach or Collateral Call, the notice of which is 
issued before 1:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time, or by 4:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time on the 
second Business Day following PJM’s or PJMSettlement’s issuance to the Member or 
Participant of a written notice of breach or Collateral Call, the notice of which is issued at or 
after 1:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time, or receipt of the PJM Board’s decision on review, if 
applicable, then the Member or Participant shall be in default and, in addition to such other 
remedies as may be available to PJM or PJMSettlement: 
 
i) A defaulting Market Participant may be precluded from buying or selling in any 
market operated by PJM until the default is remedied as set forth above; 
 
ii) A defaulting Member shall not be entitled to participate in the activities of any 
committee or other body established by the Members Committee or PJM; and 
 
iii) A defaulting Member shall not be entitled to vote on the Members Committee or 
any other committee or other body established pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
iv) PJM shall notify all other Members of the default. 
 
v) The Financial Transmission Rights positions of a Member in default shall be 
addressed as provided in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.3.9 and the 
parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.3.9. 
 
vi) PJM may permit a defaulting Market Participant to continue to participate in PJM 
Markets: (a) in support of grid reliability, (b) when such Market Participant is a 
net market seller, (c) when such Market Participant has the ability to post 
collateral, or (d) to enable certain customers to continue to receive service prior to 
PJM receiving regulatory and or legal approval to terminate. 
 
15.1.6 Reinstatement of Member Following Default and Remedy 
 
a. A Member that has been declared in default, solely of PJM’s and PJMSettlement’s 
creditworthiness standards, or fails to otherwise comply with PJM’s credit policies as more fully 
described in Tariff, Attachment Q, once within any 12 month period may be reinstated in full 
after remedying such default and satisfying any requirements imposed upon the Member as a 
result of the default. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 15. ENFORCEMENT OF OBLIGATIONS --> OA 15.1 Failure to Meet 
Obligations 
Effective Date: 4/8/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1058-001 - Page 3 
b. A Member that has been declared in default of any of the Agreements for failing to: (i) 
make timely payments when due once during any prior 12 month period, or (ii) adhere to PJM’s 
creditworthiness standards and credit policies, twice during any prior 12 month period, may be 
subject to the following restrictions: 
 
a) Loss of stakeholder privileges, including voting privileges, for 12 months 
following such default; and 
 
b) Loss of the allowance of unsecured credit for 12 months following such default 
 
c. A Member that has been declared in default of this Agreement for failing to:  (i) make 
timely payments when due twice during any prior 12 month period, or (ii) adhere to PJM’s 
creditworthiness standards and credit policies, three times during any prior 12 month period, 
shall, except as provided for in section 15.1.6(d) below, not be eligible to be reinstated as a 
Member to this Agreement and its membership rights pursuant to this Agreement shall be 
terminated in accordance with Operating Agreement, section 4.1(c), notwithstanding whether 
such default has been remedied.  Furthermore: 
 
a) PJM and PJMSettlement shall address all of the Member’s current and forward 
positions in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the PJM Tariff; 
and  
 
b) A Member terminated in accordance with these provisions shall be precluded 
from seeking future membership in PJM under this Agreement whether in the 
name of the Member when it was terminated from PJM membership or as a new 
Applicant under a different name, affiliation, or organization if the Member or 
new Applicant experienced a previous default that resulted in a loss to the PJM 
Markets and was terminated from membership.  Whether an Applicant should be 
considered the same as a Member that previously defaulted will be determined 
based on the factors identified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.4.8, 
and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.4.8. 
 
d. A Member may appeal a determination made pursuant to the foregoing procedures 
utilizing PJM’s Dispute Resolution Procedures as set forth in Operating Agreement, Schedule 5, 
(provided, however, that a Member’s decision to utilize these procedures shall not operate to stay 
the ability of PJM to exercise any and all of its rights under this Agreement and the PJM Tariff) 
and may be reinstated provided that the Member can demonstrate the following: 
 
a) that it has otherwise consistently complied with its obligations under this 
Agreement and the PJM Tariff; and 
 
b) the failure to comply was not material; and 
 
c) the failure to comply was due in large part to conditions that were not in the 
common course of business. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 15. ENFORCEMENT OF OBLIGATIONS --> OA 15.1 Failure to Meet 
Obligations 
Effective Date: 4/8/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1058-001 - Page 4 
15.1.7 Allocation of Costs and Proceeds Resulting from Addressing Defaulting Member 
Financial Transmission Rights Positions. 
 
Addressing a defaulting Member’s Financial Transmission Rights positions pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.3.9, and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
7.3.9, shall result in a final settlement amount.  The final settlement amount may be aggregated 
with any other amounts owed by the defaulting Member to PJM and/or PJMSettlement and may 
be set off by PJM and/or PJMSettlement against any amounts owed by PJM and/or 
PJMSettlement to the defaulting Member for purposes of determining the Default Allocation 
Assessment pursuant to the provisions of section 15.2.2 below.  Any payments made to a 
Member purchasing some or all of a liquidated Financial Transmission Rights portfolio shall be 
net of that Member’s charge resulting from a Default Allocation Assessment. 
 

