Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 15. ENFORCEMENT OF OBLIGATIONS --> OA 15.2 Enforcement of 
Obligations. 
Effective Date: 6/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1451-000 - Page 1 
15.2 Enforcement of Obligations. 
 
If PJM sends a notice to the PJM Board that a Member has failed to perform an obligation under 
any of the Agreements, the PJM Board, on behalf of PJM and PJMSettlement, shall initiate such 
action against such Member to enforce such obligation as the PJM Board shall deem appropriate.  
Subject to the procedures specified in section 15.1 above, a Member’s failure to perform such 
obligation shall be deemed to be a default under this Agreement.  In order to remedy a default, 
but without limiting any rights PJM or PJMSettlement  may have against the defaulting Member, 
the PJM Board may assess against, and collect from, the Members not in default, in proportion to 
their Default Allocation Assessment, an amount equal to the amount that the defaulting Member 
has failed to pay to PJMSettlement or PJM (less amounts covered by Collateral, held by 
PJMSettlement, on behalf of itself and as agent for PJM, or indemnifications paid to PJM or 
PJMSettlement), along with appropriate interest.  Such assessment shall in no way relieve the 
defaulting Member of its obligations.  In addition to any amounts in default, the defaulting 
Member shall be liable to PJM and PJMSettlement for all reasonable costs incurred in enforcing 
the defaulting Member’s obligations. 
 
15.2.1 Collection by PJM. 
 
PJM and PJMSettlement are authorized to pursue collection through such actions, legal or 
otherwise, as it reasonably deems appropriate, including but not limited to the prosecution of 
legal actions and assertion of claims on behalf of the affected Members in the state and federal 
courts as well as under the United States Bankruptcy Code.  Prior to initiating formal legal action 
in state or federal court to pursue collection, PJM and PJMSettlement shall provide to the 
Members Committee an explanation of its intended action.  Upon the duly seconded motion of 
any Member, the Members Committee may conduct a vote to afford PJM and PJMSettlement a 
sense of the membership as regards to PJM’s or PJMSettlement’s intended action to pursue 
collection.  PJM and PJMSettlement shall consider any such vote before initiating formal legal 
action and at all times during the course of any collection effort evaluate the expected benefits in 
pursuing such effort in light of any changed circumstances.  After deducting the costs of 
collection, any amounts recovered by PJM and PJMSettlement shall be distributed to the 
Members who have paid their Default Allocation Assessment in proportion to the Default 
Allocation Assessment paid by each Member. 
 
15.2.2 Default Allocation Assessment.   
 
(a) “Default Allocation Assessment” shall be equal to (0.1(1/N) + 0.9(A/Z)), where: 
 
N = the total number of Members, calculated as of five o’clock p.m. eastern prevailing 
time on the date PJM declares a Member in default, excluding ex officio Members, State 
Consumer Advocates, Emergency and Economic Load Response Program Special Members, and 
municipal electric system Members that have been granted a waiver under Operating Agreement, 
section 17.2. 
 
A = for Members comprising factor “N” above, the Member's gross activity as 
determined by summing the absolute values of the charges and credits for each of the Activity 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 15. ENFORCEMENT OF OBLIGATIONS --> OA 15.2 Enforcement of 
Obligations. 
Effective Date: 6/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1451-000 - Page 2 
Line Items identified in section 15.2.2(b) below as accounted for and billed pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3 for the month of default and the two previous 
months. 
 
Z = the sum of factor A for all Members excluding ex officio Members, State 
Consumer Advocates, Emergency and Economic Load Response Program Special Members, and 
municipal electric system Members that have been granted a waiver under Operating Agreement, 
section 17.2. 
 
The assessment value of (0.1(1/N)) shall not exceed $10,000 per Member per calendar year, 
cumulative of all defaults, or more than once per Member default if Default Allocation 
Assessment charges for a single Member default span multiple calendar years.  For this purpose, 
a default by an individual Member that spans multiple billing periods without cure shall be 
considered a single default.  If one or more defaults arise that cause the value to exceed $10,000 
per Member, then the excess shall be reallocated through the gross activity factor. 
 
(b) Activity Line Items shall be each of the line items on the PJM monthly bills net of load 
reconciliation adjustments and adjustments applicable to activity for the current billing month 
appearing on the same bill. 
 
 
 

