Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 17. MEMBER REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS --
> OA 17.1 Representations and Warranties. 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
17.1 Representations and Warranties. 
 
Each Member makes the following representations and warranties to the LLC and each other 
Member, as of the Effective Date or such later date as such Member shall become admitted as a 
Member of the LLC. 
 
17.1.1 Organization and Existence. 
 
Such Member is an entity duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of 
the state of its organization. 
 
17.1.2 Power and Authority. 
 
Such Member has the full power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement 
and to carry out the transactions contemplated hereby. 
 
17.1.3 Authorization and Enforceability. 
 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement by such Member and the performance of its 
obligations hereunder have been duly authorized by all requisite action on the part of the 
Member, and do not conflict with any applicable law or with any other agreement binding upon 
the Member.  The Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such Member and 
constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of such Member, enforceable against it in 
accordance with the terms thereof, except insofar as such enforceability may be limited by 
applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or other 
similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally, and to general principles of 
equity whether such principles are considered in proceedings in law or in equity. 
 
17.1.4 No Government Consents. 
 
No authorization, consent, approval or order of, notice to or registration, qualification, 
declaration or filing with, any governmental authority is required for the execution, delivery and 
performance by such Member of this Agreement or the carrying out by such Member of the 
transactions contemplated hereby other than such authorization, consent, approval or order of, 
notice to or registration, qualification, declaration or filing that is pending before such 
governmental authority. 
 
17.1.5 No Conflict or Breach. 
 
None of the execution, delivery and performance by such Member of this Agreement, the 
compliance with the terms and provisions hereof and the carrying out of the transactions 
contemplated hereby, conflicts or will conflict with or will result in a breach or violation of any 
of the terms, conditions or provisions of any law, governmental rule or regulation or the charter 
documents or bylaws of such Member or any applicable order, writ, injunction, judgment or 
decree of any court or governmental authority against such Member or by which it or any of its 
properties, is bound, or any loan agreement, indenture, mortgage, bond, note, resolution, contract 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 17. MEMBER REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS --
> OA 17.1 Representations and Warranties. 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 2 
or other agreement or instrument to which such Member is a party or by which it or any of its 
properties is bound, or constitutes or will constitute a default thereunder or will result in the 
imposition of any lien upon any of its properties. 
 
17.1.6 No Proceedings. 
 
There are no actions at law, suits in equity, proceedings or claims pending or, to the knowledge 
of the Member, threatened against the Member before any federal, state, foreign or local court, 
tribunal or government agency or authority that might materially delay, prevent or hinder the 
performance by the Member of its obligations hereunder. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 17. MEMBER REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS --
> OA 17.2 Municipal Electric Systems. 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
17.2 Municipal Electric Systems. 
 
Any provisions of Operating Agreement, section 17.1 notwithstanding, if any Member that is a 
municipal electric system believes in good faith that the provisions of Operating Agreement, 
section 5.1(b) and Operating Agreement, section 16.1 may not lawfully be applied to that 
Member under applicable state law governing municipal activities, the Member may request a 
waiver of the pertinent provisions of the Agreement.  Any such request for waiver shall be 
supported by an opinion of counsel for the Member to the effect that the provision of the 
Agreement as to which waiver is sought may not lawfully be applied to the Member under 
applicable state law.  The PJM Board shall have the right to have the opinion of the Member’s 
counsel reviewed by counsel to the LLC.  If the PJM Board concludes that either or both of 
Operating Agreement, section 5.1(b) and Operating Agreement, section 16.1 may not lawfully be 
applied to a municipal electric system Member, it shall waive the application of the affected 
provision or provisions to such municipal Member.  Any Member not permitted by law to 
indemnify the other Members shall not be indemnified by the other Members. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 17. MEMBER REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS --
> OA 17.3 Survival. 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
17.3 Survival. 
 
All representations and warranties contained in this Section 17 shall survive the execution and 
delivery of this Agreement. 
 

