Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 1 
18.17 Confidentiality. 
 
18.17.1 Party Access. 
 
(a) No Member shall have a right hereunder to receive or review any documents, data or 
other information of another Member, including documents, data or other information provided 
to the Office of the Interconnection, to the extent such documents, data or information have been 
designated as confidential pursuant to the procedures adopted by the Office of the 
Interconnection and/or the Market Monitoring Unit or to the extent that they have been 
designated as confidential by such other Member; provided, however, a Member may receive 
and review any composite documents, data and other information that may be developed based 
on such confidential documents, data or information if the composite does not disclose any 
individual Member’s confidential data or information. 
 
(b) Except as may be provided in this Agreement or in the PJM Open Access Transmission 
Tariff, the Office of the Interconnection shall not disclose to its Members or to third parties, any 
documents, data, or other information of a Member or entity applying for Membership, to the 
extent such documents, data, or other information has been designated confidential pursuant to 
the procedures adopted by the Office of the Interconnection or by such Member or entity 
applying for membership; provided that nothing contained herein shall prohibit the Office of the 
Interconnection from providing any such confidential information to its agents, representatives, 
or contractors to the extent that such person or entity is bound by an obligation to maintain such 
confidentiality; provided further that nothing contained herein shall prohibit the Office of the 
Interconnection from providing Member confidential information to the NERC, EIDSN, Inc., 
any Applicable Regional Entity, any Reliability Coordinator, any Transmission Operator, and the 
agents, representatives, or contractors of such entity, to the extent that (i) the Office of the 
Interconnection determines in its reasonable discretion that the exchange of such information is 
required to enhance and/or maintain reliability within the Members’ Applicable Regional 
Entities and their neighboring Regional Entities, or within the region of any Reliability 
Coordinator, (ii) such entity is bound by a written agreement to maintain such confidentiality, 
and (iii) the Office of the Interconnection has notified the affected party of its intention to release 
such information no less than five Business Days prior to the release.  The Office of the 
Interconnection, its designated agents, representatives, and contractors shall maintain as 
confidential the electronic tag (“e-Tag”) data of an e-Tag Author or Balancing Authority 
(defined as those terms are used in FERC Order No. 771) to the same extent as Member data 
under this section 18.17.  Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the Office of the 
Interconnection or its designated agents, representatives, or contractors from providing to 
another Regional Transmission Organization (“RTO”) or Independent System Operator (“ISO”), 
upon their request, the e-Tags of an e-Tag Author or Balancing Authority for intra-PJM Region 
transactions and interchange transactions scheduled to flow into, out of or through the PJM 
Region, to the extent such RTO or ISO has requested such information as part of its investigation 
of possible market violations or market design flaws, and to the extent that such RTO or ISO is 
bound by a tariff provision requiring that the e-Tag data be maintained as confidential or, in the 
absence of a tariff requirement governing confidentiality, a written agreement with the Office of 
the Interconnection consistent with FERC Order No. 771 and any clarifying orders and 
implementing regulations.  The Office of the Interconnection shall collect and use confidential 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 2 
information only in connection with its authority under this Agreement and the Open Access 
Transmission Tariff and the retention of such information shall be in accordance with the Office 
of the Interconnection’s data retention policies. 
 
(c) Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Office of the Interconnection from releasing a 
Member’s confidential data or information to a third party provided that the Member has 
delivered to the Office of the Interconnection and/or the Market Monitoring Unit specific, 
written authorization for such release setting forth the data or information to be released, to 
whom such release is authorized, and the period of time for which such release shall be 
authorized.  The Office of the Interconnection shall limit the release of a Member’s confidential 
data or information to that specific authorization received from the Member.  Nothing herein 
shall prohibit a Member from withdrawing such authorization upon written notice to the Office 
of the Interconnection, who shall cease such release as soon as practicable after receipt of such 
withdrawal notice. 
 
(d) Reciprocal provisions to this section 18.17.1, Operating Agreement, section18.17.2, 
Operating Agreement, section 18.17.3, Operating Agreement, section18.17.4 and Operating 
Agreement, section 18.17.5 , delineating the confidentiality requirements of PJM’s Market 
Monitoring Unit, are set forth in Tariff, Attachment M – Appendix, section I. 
 
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or in the PJM Tariff, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall post the following on its website:  
 
(i) the non-aggregated bid data and Offer Data submitted by Market Participants (for 
participation on the PJM Interchange Energy Market) approximately four months after the bid or 
offer was submitted to the Office of the Interconnection to allow the tracking of Market 
Participants’ non-aggregated bids and offers over time as required by FERC Order No. 719.  
However, to protect the confidential, market sensitive and/or proprietary bidding strategies of 
Market Participants as well as the identity of Market Participants from being discernible from the 
published data, the posted information will not reveal the (a) name of the resource, (b) 
characteristics of a specific resource, (c) identity of the load, (d) name of the individual or entity 
submitting the data,  (e) identity of the resource owner, or (f) location of the resource at a level 
lower than its Zone.  The Office of the Interconnection also reserves the right to take any other 
precautionary measures that it deems appropriate to preserve the confidential, market sensitive 
and/or proprietary bidding strategies of Market Participants to the extent not specifically set forth 
herein. 
 
(ii) Within 20 calendar days after the end of each month, (a) the total daily uplift credits 
by Zone as set forth in Tariff, Attachment J, and RAA, Schedule 15, and applicable uplift charge 
codes (including lost opportunity cost contained within operating reserves) and (b) the total daily 
uplift charges by applicable PJM Region or Zone, as set forth in Tariff, Attachment J and RAA, 
Schedule 15, and applicable uplift charge codes along with relevant subcategories by which they 
are allocated.  The Office of the Interconnection shall incorporate the best available information 
at the time the posting is created. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 3 
(iii)  Within 90 calendar days after the end of each month, the name of each generation 
resource unit and amount of uplift credit payments by applicable uplift charge codes (including 
lost opportunity cost contained within operating reserves, but excluding Black Start Service) for 
each resource unit that received uplift credits in that month.  For Demand Resources or 
Economic Load Response Participants, the Office of Interconnection shall post, within 90 
calendar days after the end of each month, the individual resource identification number 
associated with the Demand Resource or Economic Load Response Participant’s relevant 
dispatch group or registration, the name of the associated Curtailment Service Provider, the Zone 
and energy pricing point used to settle the Demand Resource or Economic Load Response 
Participant’s dispatch group or registration, and the corresponding amount of uplift credits by 
applicable uplift charge codes for the dispatch group or registration that received uplift credits in 
that month. The Office of Interconnection shall incorporate the best available information at the 
time the posting is created. 
 
(iv)  Within 30 calendar days after the end of each month, each Operator-initiated 
Commitment listing the size of the commitment in megawatts (where megawatts are equal to the 
economic maximum), Zone (as set forth in Tariff, Attachment J and RAA, Schedule 15), 
commitment reason, and commitment start time.  Commitment reasons shall include, but are not 
limited to, system wide capacity, constraint management, and voltage support. 
 
(f) To the extent permitted pursuant to 18 C.F.R. §38.2 (or successor provisions), nothing 
contained herein shall prohibit the Office of the Interconnection from sharing non-public, 
operational information with an interstate natural gas pipeline operator for the purpose of 
promoting reliable service or operational planning.  Further, the Office of the Interconnection 
shall be permitted to share non-public, operational information with natural gas local distribution 
companies and/or intrastate natural gas pipeline operators, as appropriate, for the purpose of 
promoting reliable service or operational planning, provided that such party has acknowledged, 
in writing, that it shall not disclose, or use anyone as a conduit for disclosure of, non-public, 
operational information received from the Office of Interconnection to a third party or in an 
unduly discriminatory or preferential manner or to the detriment of any natural gas and/or 
electric market.  Such non-public, operational information received from natural gas local 
distribution companies and/or intrastate natural gas pipeline operators pursuant to this section 
will be subject to the confidentiality provisions set forth in this section 18.17. 
 
18.17.2 Required Disclosure. 
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing section to the contrary, and subject to the 
provisions of section 18.17.3 below, if the Office of the Interconnection is required by applicable 
law, order, or in the course of administrative or judicial proceedings, to disclose to third parties, 
information that is otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to this 
Agreement, the Office of the Interconnection or its designated agents, representatives, or 
contractors may make disclosure of such information; provided, however, that as soon as the 
Office of the Interconnection learns of the disclosure requirement and prior to it or its designated 
agents, representatives, or contractors making disclosure, the Office of the Interconnection shall 
notify the affected Member or Members of the requirement and the terms thereof and the 
affected Member or Members may direct, at their sole discretion and cost, any challenge to or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 4 
defense against the disclosure requirement.  The Office of the Interconnection shall cooperate 
with such affected Members to the maximum extent practicable to minimize the disclosure of the 
information consistent with applicable law.  The Office of the Interconnection shall cooperate 
with the affected Members to obtain proprietary or confidential treatment of such information by 
the person to whom such information is disclosed prior to any such disclosure. 
 
(b) Nothing in this section 18.17 shall prohibit or otherwise limit the Office of the 
Interconnection’s use of information covered herein if such information was:  (i) previously 
known to the Office of the Interconnection without an obligation of confidentiality; (ii) 
independently developed by or for the Office of the Interconnection using non-confidential 
information; (iii) acquired by the Office of the Interconnection from a third party which is not, to 
the Office of the Interconnection’s knowledge, under an obligation of confidence with respect to 
such information; (iv) which is or becomes publicly available other than through a manner 
inconsistent with this section 18.17. 
 
(c) The Office of the Interconnection shall impose on any contractors retained to provide 
technical support or otherwise to assist with the implementation or administration of this 
Agreement or of the Open Access Transmission Tariff a contractual duty of confidentiality 
consistent with this Agreement.  A Member shall not be obligated to provide confidential or 
proprietary information to any contractor that does not assume such a duty of confidentiality, and 
the Office of the Interconnection shall not provide any such information to any such contractor 
without the express written permission of the Member providing the information. 
 
18.17.3 Disclosure to FERC and CFTC. 
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, if the FERC, the Commodity 
Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), or the staff of those commissions, during the course of 
an investigation or otherwise, requests information from the Office of the Interconnection that is 
otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to this Agreement, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall provide the requested information to the FERC, CFTC or their respective 
staff, within the time provided for in the request for information.  In providing the information to 
the FERC or its staff, the Office of the Interconnection may request, consistent with 18 C.F.R. §§ 
1b.20 and 388.112, or to the CFTC or its staff, the Office of the Interconnection may request, 
consistent with 17 C.F.R. §§ 11.3 and 145.9, that the information be treated as confidential and 
non-public by the respective commission and its staff and that the information be withheld from 
public disclosure.  The Office of the Interconnection shall promptly notify any affected 
Member(s) if the Office of the Interconnection receives from the FERC, CFTC or their staff 
written notice that the commission has decided to release publicly, or has asked for comment on 
whether such commission should release publicly, confidential information previously provided 
to a commission by the Office of the Interconnection.  
 
(b) Section 18.17.3(a) above shall not apply to requests for production of information under 
Subpart D of the FERC’s Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR Part 385) in proceedings 
before FERC and its administrative law judges.  In all such proceedings, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall follow the procedures in section 18.17.2 above.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 5 
(c) Pursuant to the FERC Order No. 760, as codified under 18 C.F.R. § 35.28(g)(4), to the 
extent that the Office of the Interconnection already collects such data described in Order No. 
760, the Office of the Interconnection shall electronically deliver to the FERC, on an ongoing 
basis and in a form and manner consistent with its own collection of data and in a form and 
manner acceptable to the FERC, data related to the markets that the Office of the Interconnection 
administers.  Section 18.17.3(a) above shall not apply to data supplied to the FERC under this 
subsection (c) to satisfy the FERC Order No. 760 requirements. 
 
(d) Pursuant to the FERC Order No. 771 and any clarifying orders, as codified under 18 
C.F.R. § 366.2(d), the Office of the Interconnection shall ensure that FERC is included as an 
addressee on all e-Tags for transactions that sink within the PJM Region.   
 
18.17.4 Disclosure to Authorized Commissions. 
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the Office of the Interconnection 
shall disclose confidential information, otherwise required to be maintained in confidence 
pursuant to this Agreement, to an Authorized Commission under the following conditions: 
 
(i) The Authorized Commission has provided the FERC with a properly-
executed Certification in the form attached hereto as Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 10A.  Upon receipt of the Authorized Commission’s 
Certification, the FERC shall provide public notice of the Authorized 
Commission’s filing pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 385.2009.  If any interested 
party disputes the accuracy and adequacy of the representations contained 
in the Authorized Commission’s Certification, that party may file a protest 
with the Commission within 14 days of the date of such notice, pursuant to 
18 C.F.R. § 385.211.  The Authorized Commission may file a response to 
any such protest within seven days.  Each party shall bear its own costs in 
connection with such a FERC protest proceeding.  If there are material 
changes in law that affect the accuracy and adequacy of the 
representations in the Certification filed with the Commission, the 
Authorized Commission shall, within thirty (30) days, submit an amended 
Certification identifying such changes.  Any such amended Certification 
shall be subject to the same procedures for comment and review by the 
Commission as set forth above in this paragraph.   
 
The Office of the Interconnection may not disclose data to an Authorized 
Commission during the Commission’s consideration of the Certification 
and any filed protests.  If the Commission does not act upon an Authorized 
Commission’s Certification within 90 days of the date of filing, the 
Certification shall be deemed approved and the Authorized Commission 
shall be permitted to receive confidential information pursuant to this 
section.  In the event that an interested party protests the Authorized 
Commission’s Certification and the Commission approves the 
Certification, that party may not challenge any Information Request made 
by the Authorized Commission on the grounds that the Authorized 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 6 
Commission is unable to protect the confidentiality of the information 
requested, in the absence of a showing of changed circumstances. 
 
(ii) Any confidential information provided to an Authorized Commission 
pursuant to this section shall not be further disclosed by the recipient 
Authorized Commission except by order of the Commission. 
 
(iii) The Office of the Interconnection shall be expressly entitled to rely upon 
such Authorized Commission Certifications in providing confidential 
information to the Authorized Commission, and shall in no event be liable, 
or subject to damages or claims of any kind or nature hereunder, due to the 
ineffectiveness or inaccuracy of such Authorized Commission 
Certifications. 
 
(iv) The Authorized Commission may provide confidential information 
obtained from the Office of the Interconnection to such of its employees, 
attorneys and contractors as needed to examine or handle that information 
in the course and scope of their work on behalf of the Authorized 
Commission, provided that (a) the Authorized Commission has internal 
procedures in place, pursuant to the Certification, to ensure that each 
person receiving such information agrees to protect the confidentiality of 
such information (such employees, attorneys or contractors to be defined 
hereinafter as “Authorized Persons”); (b) the Authorized Commission 
provides, pursuant to the Certification, a list of such Authorized Persons to 
the Office of the Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit and 
updates such list, as necessary, every ninety (90) days; and (c) any third-
party contractors provided access to confidential information sign a non-
disclosure agreement in the form attached hereto as Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 10 before being provided access to any such confidential 
information.   
 
(v) The Office of the Interconnection shall maintain a schedule of all 
Authorized Persons and the Authorized Commissions they represent, 
which shall be made publicly available on its website, or by written 
request.  Such schedule shall be compiled by the Office of the 
Interconnection, based on information provided by any Authorized 
Commission.  The Office of the Interconnection shall update the schedule 
promptly upon receipt of information from an Authorized Commission, 
but shall have no obligation to verify or corroborate any such information, 
and shall not be liable or otherwise responsible for any inaccuracies in the 
schedule due to incomplete or erroneous information conveyed to and 
relied upon by the Office of the Interconnection in the compilation and/or 
maintenance of the schedule. 
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection may, in the course of discussions with an Authorized 
Person, orally disclose information otherwise required to be maintained in confidence, without 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 7 
the need for a prior Information Request. Such oral disclosures shall provide enough information 
to enable the Authorized Person or the Authorized Commission with which that Authorized 
Person is associated to determine whether additional Information Requests are appropriate.  The 
Office of the Interconnection will not make any written or electronic disclosures of confidential 
information to the Authorized Person pursuant to this section 18.17.4(b).  In any such 
discussions, the Office of the Interconnection shall ensure that the individual or individuals 
receiving such confidential information are Authorized Persons as defined herein, orally 
designate confidential information that is disclosed, and refrain from identifying any specific 
Affected Member whose information is disclosed.  The Office of the Interconnection shall also 
be authorized to assist Authorized Persons in interpreting confidential information that is 
disclosed. The Office of the Interconnection shall provide any Affected Member with oral notice 
of any oral disclosure immediately, but not later than one (1) Business Day after the oral 
disclosure.  Such oral notice to the Affected Member shall include the substance of the oral 
disclosure, but shall not reveal any confidential information of any other Member and must be 
received by the Affected Member before the name of the Affected Member is released to the 
Authorized Person; provided however, disclosure of the identity of the Affected Party must be 
made to the Authorized Commission with which the Authorized Person is associated within two 
(2) Business Days of the initial oral disclosure. 
 
(c) As regards Information Requests: 
 
(i) Information Requests to the Office of the Interconnection and/or Market 
Monitoring Unit by an Authorized Commission shall be in writing, which 
shall include electronic communications, addressed to the Office of the 
Interconnection, and shall: (a) describe the information sought in sufficient 
detail to allow a response to the Information Request; (b) provide a 
general description of the purpose of the Information Request; (c) state the 
time period for which confidential information is requested; and (d) re-
affirm that only Authorized Persons shall have access to the confidential 
information requested.  The Office of the Interconnection shall provide an 
Affected Member with written notice, which shall include electronic 
communication, of an Information Request by an Authorized Commission 
as soon as possible, but not later than two (2) Business Days after the 
receipt of the Information Request. 
 
(ii) Subject to the provisions of section (c)(iii) below, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall supply confidential information to the Authorized 
Commission in response to any Information Request within five (5) 
Business Days of the receipt of the Information Request, to the extent that 
the requested confidential information can be made available within such 
period; provided however, that in no event shall confidential information 
be released prior to the end of the fourth (4th) Business Day without the 
express consent of the Affected Member.  To the extent that the Office of 
the Interconnection cannot reasonably prepare and deliver the requested 
confidential information within such five (5) day period, it shall, within 
such period, provide the Authorized Commission with a written schedule 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 8 
for the provision of such remaining confidential information.  Upon 
providing confidential information to the Authorized Commission, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall either provide a copy of the 
confidential information to the Affected Member(s), or provide a listing of 
the confidential information disclosed; provided, however, that the Office 
of the Interconnection shall not reveal any Member’s confidential 
information to any other Member. 
 
(iii) Notwithstanding section (c)(ii) above, should the Office of the 
Interconnection or an Affected Member object to an Information Request 
or any portion thereof, any of them may, within four (4) Business Days 
following the Office of the Interconnection’s receipt of the Information 
Request, request, in writing, a conference with the Authorized 
Commission to resolve differences concerning the scope or timing of the 
Information Request; provided, however, nothing herein shall require the 
Authorized Commission to participate in any conference.  Any party to the 
conference may seek assistance from FERC staff in resolution of the 
dispute or terminate the conference process at any time.  Should such 
conference be refused or terminated by any participant or should such 
conference not resolve the dispute, then the Office of the Interconnection 
or the Affected Member may file a complaint with the Commission 
pursuant to Rule 206 objecting to the Information Request within ten (10) 
Business Days following receipt of written notice from any conference 
participant terminating such conference.  Any complaints filed at FERC 
objecting to a particular Information Request shall be designated by the 
party as a “fast track” complaint and each party shall bear its own costs in 
connection with such FERC proceeding. The grounds for such a complaint 
shall be limited to the following: (a) the Authorized Commission is no 
longer able to preserve the confidentiality of the requested information due 
to changed circumstances relating to the Authorized Commission’s ability 
to protect confidential information arising since the filing of or rejection of 
a protest directed to the Authorized Commission’s Certification; (b) 
complying with the Information Request would be unduly burdensome to 
the complainant, and the complainant has made a good faith effort to 
negotiate limitations in the scope of the requested information; or (c) other 
exceptional circumstances exist such that complying with the Information 
Request would result in harm to the complainant.  There shall be a 
presumption that “exceptional circumstances,” as used in the prior 
sentence, does not include circumstances in which an Authorized 
Commission has requested wholesale market data (or Market Monitoring 
Unit workpapers that support or explain conclusions or analyses) 
generated in the ordinary course and scope of the operations of the Office 
of the Interconnection and/or the Market Monitoring Unit.  There shall be 
a presumption that circumstances in which an Authorized Commission has 
requested personnel files, internal emails and internal company memos, 
analyses and related work product constitute “exceptional circumstances” 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 9 
as used in the prior sentence.  If no complaint challenging the Information 
Request is filed within the ten (10) day period defined above, the Office of 
the Interconnection shall utilize its best efforts to respond to the 
Information Request promptly.  If a complaint is filed, and the 
Commission does not act on that complaint within ninety (90) days, the 
complaint shall be deemed denied and the Office of Interconnection shall 
use its best efforts to respond to the Information Request promptly.   
 
(iv) Any Authorized Commission may initiate appropriate legal action at 
FERC within ten (10) Business Days following receipt of information 
designated as “Confidential,” challenging such designation.  Any 
complaints filed at FERC objecting to the designation of information as 
“Confidential” shall be designated by the party as a “fast track” complaint 
and each party shall bear its own costs in connection with such FERC 
proceeding.  The party filing such a complaint shall be required to prove 
that the material disclosed does not merit “Confidential” status because it 
is publicly available from other sources or contains no trade secret or other 
sensitive commercial information (with “publicly available” not being 
deemed to include unauthorized disclosures of otherwise confidential 
data). 
 
(d) In the event of any breach of confidentiality of information disclosed pursuant to an 
Information Request by an Authorized Commission or Authorized Person: 
 
(i) The Authorized Commission or Authorized Person shall promptly notify 
the Office of the Interconnection, who shall, in turn, promptly notify any 
Affected Member of any inadvertent or intentional release, or possible 
release, of confidential information provided pursuant to this section. 
 
(ii) The Office of the Interconnection shall terminate the right of such 
Authorized Commission to receive confidential information under this 
section upon written notice to such Authorized Commission unless: (i) 
there was no harm or damage suffered by the Affected Member; or (ii) 
similar good cause is shown.  Any appeal of the Office of the 
Interconnection’s and/or the Market Monitoring Unit’s actions under this 
section shall be to FERC.  An Authorized Commission shall be entitled to 
reestablish its certification as set forth in section 18.17.4(a) above by 
submitting a filing with the Commission showing that it has taken 
appropriate corrective action.  If the Commission does not act upon an 
Authorized Commission's re-certification filing with sixty (60) days of the 
date of the filing, the re-certification shall be deemed approved and the 
Authorized Commission shall be permitted to receive confidential 
information pursuant to this section. 
 
(iii) The Office of the Interconnection and/or the Affected Member shall have 
the right to seek and obtain at least the following types of relief: (a) an 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 10 
order from FERC requiring any breach to cease and preventing any future 
breaches; (b) temporary, preliminary, and/or permanent injunctive relief 
with respect to any breach; and (c) the immediate return of all confidential 
information to the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
(iv) No Authorized Person or Authorized Commission shall have 
responsibility or liability whatsoever under this section for any and all 
liabilities, losses, damages, demands, fines, monetary judgments, 
penalties, costs and expenses caused by, resulting from, or arising out of 
or in connection with the release of confidential information to persons not 
authorized to receive it, provided that such Authorized Person is an agent, 
servant, employee or member of an Authorized Commission at the time of 
such unauthorized release.  Nothing in this section (d)(iv) is intended to 
limit the liability of any person who is not an agent, servant, employee or 
member of an Authorized Commission at the time of such unauthorized 
release for any and all economic losses, damages, demands, fines, 
monetary judgments, penalties, costs and expenses caused by, resulting 
from, or arising out of or in connection with such unauthorized release. 
 
(v) Any dispute or conflict requesting the relief in section (d)(ii) or (d)(iii)(a) 
above, shall be submitted to FERC for hearing and resolution.  Any 
dispute or conflict requesting the relief in section (d)(iii)(c) above may be 
submitted to FERC or any court of competent jurisdiction for hearing and 
resolution. 
 
18.17.5 [Reserved] 
 
18.17.6 Disclosure of EMS and Transmission System Data to Transmission Owners 
on PJM EMS Terminal and Via Other Reliability or Situational Awareness Tools 
 
(a) While the Office of the Interconnection has overall responsibility for power system 
reliability in the PJM Region, Transmission Owners within the PJM Region perform specified 
reliability functions with respect to their individual Transmission Facilities and distribution 
systems.  In order to facilitate reliable operations between the Office of the Interconnection and 
the Transmission Owners, the Office of the Interconnection may, without written authorization 
from any Member, install a read-only terminal, or allow the Transmission Owner through a 
secure communication channel, in any Transmission Owner’s secure control room facility to 
access the Office of the Interconnection’s Energy Management System (EMS), or its other 
reliability or situational awareness tools, and the associated transmission and generation data 
under the terms and conditions set forth in this section 18.17.6.   
 
(b) The data and information produced by the EMS or other situational awareness tool, are 
confidential and/or commercially sensitive because they will display the real-time status of 
electric transmission lines and generation facilities, the disclosure of which could impact the 
market and the commercial interests of its participants.  In addition, the responsive information 
will contain detailed information about real-time grid conditions, transmission lines, power 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 11 
flows, and outages, which may fall within the definition of Critical Energy Infrastructure 
Information (CEII) as set forth in 18 CFR § 388.113.  The Office of the Interconnection shall not 
release any generator cost, price or other market information without written authorization 
pursuant to section 18.17.1 (c) above unless otherwise provided for under this Agreement.  The 
only generator information that will be made available on the read-only PJM EMS terminal is 
real-time MW/MVAR output and Minimum/Maximum MW Range.  The transmission system 
information that may be made available via a reliability or situational awareness tool is limited to 
geospatial locations and other real-time operational data. 
 
(c) The confidential or CEII information provided to the Transmission Owner on a read-only 
PJM EMS terminal or via another reliability or situational awareness tool shall only be held in 
the secure control room facility of the Transmission Owner.  Such data shall be used for 
informational and operational purposes within the control room by transmission function 
employees as defined in the FERC’s rules and regulations, 18 C.F.R. § 358.  No “screen-
scraping” or other data transfer of information from the read-only terminal or other situational 
awareness tool to other Transmission Owner systems or databases shall be permitted.  No storage 
of information from the read-only terminal or other reliability or situational awareness tool shall 
be permitted.  The data shall be held confidential within the transmission function environment 
and not be disclosed to other personnel within the Transmission Owners’ company, subsidiaries, 
marketing organizations, energy affiliates or independent third parties.  The Transmission Owner 
may use the confidential or CEII information only for the purpose of performing Transmission 
Owner’s reliability function and shall not otherwise use the confidential information for its own 
benefit or for the benefit of any other person.   
 
(d) In the event of any breach: 
 
(i) The Transmission Owner(s) that caused the breach, or whose confidential 
information or CEII was used or disseminated beyond the limitations 
specified herein shall promptly notify the Office of the Interconnection, 
which shall, in turn, promptly notify FERC and any affected Member(s) of 
any inadvertent or intentional release, or possible release, of confidential 
or CEII information disclosed as provided above. 
 
(ii) The Office of the Interconnection shall terminate all rights of the 
Transmission Owner to receive confidential or CEII information as 
provided in this section 18.17.6; provided, however, that the Office of the 
Interconnection may restore a Transmission Owners’ status after 
consulting with the affected Member(s) whose confidential or CEII 
information was used or disseminated beyond the limitations specified 
herein and to the extent that: (a) the Office of the Interconnection 
determines that the disclosure was not due to the intentional, reckless or 
negligent action or omission of the authorized  transmission function 
employee; (b) there were no harm or damages suffered by the affected 
Member(s); or (c) similar good cause shown. Any appeal of the Office of 
the Interconnection’s actions under this section shall be to FERC. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 12 
(iii) The Office of the Interconnection and/or the affected Member(s) shall 
have the right to seek and obtain at least the following types of relief: (a) 
an order from FERC requiring any breach to cease and preventing any 
future breaches; (b) temporary, preliminary, and/or permanent injunctive 
relief and/or damages with respect to any breach; and (c) the immediate 
return of all confidential or CEII information to the Office of the 
Interconnection. 
 
(iv) Any dispute or conflict requesting the relief in section (d)(ii) or (d)(iii)(a) 
above, shall be submitted to FERC for hearing and resolution.  Any 
dispute or conflict requesting the relief in section (d)(iii)(b) and (c) above 
may be submitted to FERC or any court of competent jurisdiction for 
hearing and resolution. 
 
18.17.7 Disclosure of Generator Data to Transmission Owners 
 
(a) In order to facilitate reliable operations between the Office of the Interconnection and the 
Transmission Owners, the Office of the Interconnection may, without written authorization from 
any Member, provide to each Transmission Owner upon the Transmission Owner’s request the 
following confidential generator information for any generator that: (1) is or will be modeled 
within the Transmission Owner’s energy management system; or (2) is or will be identified in a 
Transmission Owner’s restoration plan: 
 
(i) real-time unit status; 
 
(ii) real-time megawatt output; 
 
(iii) real-time megavolt amperes reactive (“MVAR”); 
 
(iv) the start date, start time, stop date, and stop time for the unit’s scheduled 
outages;  
 
(v) the unit’s reactive capability curve; and 
 
(vi) data provided for Transmission Owner use for system restoration planning 
purposes only, including but not limited to the unit’s start-up times, ramp 
rate, start-up auxiliary load profile and emergency low-load operation 
capabilities. 
 
(b) In order to facilitate reliable operations between the Office of the Interconnection and the 
Transmission Owners, the Office of the Interconnection may, without written authorization from 
any Member, provide to each Transmission Owner the following generator information: 
 
(i) forecasted unit status; 
 
(ii) forecasted megawatt output; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 13 
 
(iii) the start date, start time, stop date, and stop time for the information in this 
section 18.17.7 (b)(i) and 18.17.7 (b)(ii);  
 
(iv) the Zone in which the generator resides; and 
 
(v) generator operating parameters including, but not limited, to each unit’s 
start-up times, ramp rate, Minimum Down Time, and Minimum Run 
Time. 
 
(c) The Office of the Interconnection will provide the data in section 18.17.7(a) and (b) only 
where it possesses such data.  The Office of the Interconnection shall provide this confidential 
information only to transmission function employees, as transmission function employee is 
defined in section 18 C.F.R. § 358 of the FERC rules and regulations. 
 
(d) A Transmission Owner may only use the generator data provided under section 
18.17.7(a) and (b) above for the purpose of executing the Transmission Owner’s reliability 
function and transmission function, as transmission function is defined in section 18 C.F.R. § 
358 of the FERC rules and regulations, and shall not otherwise use the confidential information 
for its own benefit or the benefit of any other person.  A Transmission Owner may disclose the 
generator data obtained under section 18.17.7(a) and (b) above only to the Transmission Owner’s 
transmission function employees whose access to such data is necessary to perform the 
Transmission Owner’s transmission functions.  Transmission Owners shall not disclose the 
generator data obtained under section 18.17.7(a) and (b) above to any person, including 
marketing function employees as defined in section 18 C.F.R. § 358 of the FERC rules and 
regulations, except as permitted under this section 18.17.7.   
 
(e) Each Transmission Owner shall protect and keep confidential all the information it 
receives from the Office of the Interconnection pursuant to this section 18.17.7.  It may, copy, 
post, distribute, disclose or disseminate the data obtained pursuant to section 18.17.7(a) and (b) 
above only in the following manner.  Each Transmission Owner may make a limited number of 
copies of written or electronic materials to enable the Transmission Owner to adequately use the 
information obtained pursuant to section 18.17.7(a) and (b) above within the terms and 
conditions of this section of this Agreement.  If the Transmission Owner prints or electronically 
conveys any information in obtained pursuant to section 18.17.7(a) and (b) above, it shall protect 
each copy in accordance with this section 18.17.7 and mark each copy as “Confidential 
Information.”   
 
(f) The Transmission Owner shall destroy all information obtained under section 18.17.7(a) 
and (b) above upon the completion of the use of such information for the purpose of performing 
Transmission Owner’s transmission functions, as transmission functions is defined in section 18 
C.F.R. § 358 of the FERC rules and regulations.  
 
(g) A Transmission Owner shall be responsible for the breach of this section 18.17.7 by any 
of its employees or representatives.  In the event of any breach by the Transmission Owner of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 18. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS --> OA 18.17 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/26/2024 - Docket #: ER21-428-000 - Page 14 
this section 18.17.7 by any of its employees or representatives, section 18.17.6(d) shall apply to 
the release of the confidential information. 
 
18.17.8 Disclosure of Credit-Related Information to FERC-Jurisdictional RTOs and 
ISOs 
 
(a)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Operating Agreement or in the Tariff, 
the Office of the Interconnection is permitted to share credit-related information of Members, 
Market Participants, and Applicants, including, without limitation, information of the respective 
Affiliates of the foregoing, with other FERC-jurisdictional RTOs and ISOs for the purpose of 
credit risk management and mitigation.   
 
(b)  The Office of the Interconnection is permitted to use credit-related information received 
from other FERC-jurisdictional RTOs and ISOs to the same extent and for the same purposes 
that it may use credit-related information received from its Members, Market Participants, and 
Applicants.  The Office of the Interconnection will treat credit-related information received from 
other FERC-jurisdictional RTOs and ISOs as confidential information to the same extent as it 
would treat such information if it were received directly from one of its Members, Market 
Participants or Applicants. 
 

