Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 3. PURPOSES AND POWERS OF LLC --> OA 3.3 Counterparty 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
3.3 Counterparty.   
 
(a) In accordance with Operating Agreement, section 10.1, the Office of the Interconnection 
shall implement this Agreement and administer the PJM Tariff.  Under the Tariff and this 
Operating Agreement, the LLC administers the provision of transmission service and associated 
ancillary services to customers and operates and administers various centralized electric power 
and energy markets.  In obtaining transmission service and in these centralized markets, 
customers conduct transactions with PJMSettlement as a counterparty.  Market participants also 
may conduct bilateral transactions with other market participants and they may self-supply 
power and energy to the electric loads they serve.  Such bilateral and self-supply arrangements 
are not transactions with PJMSettlement.   
 
(b) For purposes of contracting with customers and conducting financial settlements 
regarding the use of the transmission capacity of the Transmission System, the LLC has 
established PJMSettlement.  The LLC also has established PJMSettlement as the entity that is the 
Counterparty with respect to the agreements and transactions in the centralized markets that the 
LLC administers under the Tariff and the Operating Agreement (i.e., the agreements and 
transactions that are not bilateral arrangements between market participants or self-supply).  
PJMSettlement will serve as the Counterparty to Financial Transmission Rights and Auction 
Revenue Rights instruments held by a Market Participant.  Any subsequent bilateral transfer of 
these instruments by the Market Participant to another Market Participant shall require the 
consent of PJMSettlement, but shall not implicate PJMSettlement as a contracting party with 
respect to such subsequent bilateral transfer. 
 
(c) As specified in Operating Agreement, section 11 and Operating Agreement, Schedule 4, 
Members agree that PJMSettlement is the Counterparty to certain transactions as specified in this 
Operating Agreement and the PJM Tariff.   
 
(d) As a party to the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, the LLC has acquired the right 
to use the transmission capacity of the transmission system that is required to provide service under the 
PJM Tariff and the authorization to resell transmission service using such capacity on the transmission 
system.  Under the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, the LLC compensates the 
Transmission Owners for the use of their transmission capacity by distributing certain revenues to the 
Transmission Owners as set forth in the PJM Tariff and the Consolidated Transmission Owners 
Agreement.  The LLC has assigned its right to use the transmission capacity of the Transmission 
System to PJMSettlement.  Accordingly, PJMSettlement shall compensate the Transmission 
Owners for the use of the transmission capacity required to provide service under the PJM Tariff 
and this Agreement.   
 
(e) Unless otherwise expressly stated in the PJM Tariff or this Agreement, PJMSettlement 
shall be the Counterparty to the customers purchasing Transmission Service and Network 
Integration Transmission Service, and to the other transactions with customers and other entities 
under the PJM Tariff and this Agreement. 
 
(f) PJMSettlement shall not be a contracting party to other non-transmission transactions that 
are (i) bilateral transactions between market participants, or (ii) self-supplied or self-scheduled 
transactions reported to the LLC.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 3. PURPOSES AND POWERS OF LLC --> OA 3.3 Counterparty 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
 
(g) Notwithstanding the foregoing, PJMSettlement shall not be the Counterparty with respect 
to agreements and transactions regarding the LLC’s administration of Tariff, Part IV and Tariff, 
Part VI, Tariff, Schedule 1, Tariff, Schedule 9 (excluding Schedule 9-PJMSettlement), Tariff, 
Schedule 10-NERC, Tariff, Schedule 10-RFC, Tariff, Schedule 14, Tariff, Schedule 16, Tariff, 
Schedule 16-A, and Tariff, Schedule 17. 
 
(h) Confidentiality.  PJMSettlement shall be bound by the same confidentiality requirements 
as the LLC.   
 
(i) PJMSettlement Costs.  All costs of the services provided by PJMSettlement for the 
benefit of Market Participants and Transmission Customers shall be included in the charges for 
Administrative Services set forth in Schedule 9-PJMSettlement of the PJM Tariff.   
 
(j) Amendment of Previously Effective Arrangements.   
 
 (i) Transmission Service Agreements.  Transmission Service Agreements in effect at 
the time this section 3.3 becomes effective shall be deemed to be revised to include PJMSettlement 
as a Counterparty to the Transmission Service Agreement in the same manner and to the same 
extent as agreements entered after the effective date of this section 3.3.   
 
 (ii) Reliability Pricing Model.  PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the 
transactions arising from the cleared Base Residual Auctions and Incremental Auctions that 
occurred prior to the effective date of this section 3.3 and for which delivery will occur after the 
effective date of this section 3.3 in the same manner and to the same extent as transactions arising 
from auctions cleared after the effective date of this section 3.3.   
 
 (iii) Auction Revenue Rights and Financial Transmission Rights.  PJMSettlement shall 
be the Counterparty with respect to the rights and obligations arising from Auction Revenue Rights 
and Financial Transmission Rights acquired in an auction or assigned by PJM prior to the effective 
date of this section 3.3 to the same extent as with respect to rights and obligations arising from 
auctions or assignments of Auction Revenue Rights and Financial Transmission Rights after the 
effective date of this section 3.3. 
 
 

