Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 5. WORKING CAPITAL AND CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS --> OA 5.1 
Funding of Working Capital and Capital Contributions. 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
5.1 Funding of Working Capital and Capital Contributions.  
 
(a) The Office of the Interconnection shall attempt to obtain financing of up to twenty-five 
percent (25%) of the approved annual operating budget of the LLC adopted by the PJM Board 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, section 7.5.2 to meet the working capital needs of the LLC, 
which shall be limited to such working capital needs that arise from timing in cash flows from 
interchange accounting, tariff administration and payment of the operating costs of the Office of 
the Interconnection.  Such financing, which shall be non-recourse to the Members of the LLC 
and which shall be for a stated term without penalty for prepayment, may be obtained by 
borrowing the amount required at market-based interest rates, negotiated on an arm’s length 
basis, (i) from a Member or Members or (ii) from a commercial lender, supported, if necessary, 
by credit enhancements provided by a Member or Members; provided, however, no Member 
shall be obligated to provide such financing or credit enhancements.  The LLC shall make such 
filings and seek such approvals as necessary in order for the principal, interest and fees related to 
any such borrowing to be repaid through charges under the  Tariff as appropriate under 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 3.  
 
(b) In the event financing of the working capital needs of the Office of the Interconnection is 
unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, the PJM Board may require the Members to 
contribute capital in the aggregate up to five million two hundred thousand dollars ($5,200,000) 
for the working capital needs that could not be financed; provided that in such event each 
Member’s obligation to contribute additional capital shall be in proportion to its Weighted 
Interest, multiplied by the amount so requested by the PJM Board.  Each Member that 
contributes such capital shall be entitled to earn a return on the contribution to the extent such 
contribution has not been repaid, which return shall be at a fair market rate as determined by the 
PJM Board but in no event less than the current interest rate established pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 
35.19a(a)(2)(iii); provided further, that any Member not wanting to contribute the requested 
capital contribution may withdraw from the LLC upon 90 days written notice as provided in 
Operating Agreement, section 18.18.2.  
 
(c) Authority to borrow capital for LLC Operations.  Nothing in section 5.1(a) and (b) above, 
shall be construed to restrict the authority of the PJM Board to authorize the LLC to borrow or 
raise capital in excess of twenty-five percent of the approved annual operating budget of the 
LLC, for working capital or otherwise, as the PJM Board deems appropriate to fund the 
operations of the LLC, in accordance with the general powers of the LLC under Operating 
Agreement, section 3.2 to enter into obligations of any kind to accomplish the purposes of the 
LLC.  Nor shall anything in section 5.1(a) and (b) above, in any way restrict the authority of the 
PJM Board to authorize the LLC to grant to lenders such security interests or other rights in 
assets or revenues received under the  Tariff with respect to the costs of operating the LLC and 
the Office of the Interconnection and to take such other actions as it deems necessary and 
appropriate to obtain such financing in accordance with such general powers of the LLC under 
Operating Agreement, section 3.2. 
 

