Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 7. PJM BOARD --> OA 7.5 Operating and Capital Budgets; Sources and 
Uses of Fu 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
7.5 Operating and Capital Budgets; Sources and Uses of Funds. 
 
7.5.1 Finance Committee. 
 
(a) Not later than December 1 of each year, the entities specified below shall select the 
members of a Finance Committee.  The Finance Committee shall be composed of two 
representatives elected from each sector of the Members Committee as defined in Operating 
Agreement, section 8.1, one representative of the Office of the Interconnection selected by the 
President, and two Board Members selected by the PJM Board.  The Office of the 
Interconnection representative shall be the Chair of the Finance Committee.  The Chair of the 
Finance Committee and the two PJM Board Members on the Finance Committee shall not vote 
on the recommendations of the Finance Committee to the PJM Board and Members Committee.  
Each Member Representative of the PJM Finance Committee shall be entitled to vote on final 
recommendations to the PJM Board and the PJM Members Committee.  The Member 
Representatives shall represent the interests of their respective sectors.  In accordance with 
Operating Agreement, section 7.7 and Operating Agreement, section 11.1, the Members 
Representatives shall avoid undue influence by any Member or group of Members on the 
operations of PJM and Member management of the business of PJM. 
 
(b) The purpose of the PJM Finance Committee is to review PJM’s consolidated financial 
statements, budgeted and actual capital costs, operating budgets and expenses, and cost 
management initiatives and in an advisory capacity to submit to the PJM Board its analysis of 
and recommendations on PJM’s annual budgets and on other matters pertaining to the 
appropriate level of PJM’s rates, proposed major new investments and allocation and disposition 
of funds consistent with PJM’s duties and responsibilities as specified in Operating Agreement, 
section 7.7.  The Finance Committee shall also review and comment upon any additional or 
amended budgets prepared by the Office of the Interconnection at the request of the PJM Board 
or the Members Committee.  Copies of the Finance Committee’s submissions to the PJM Board 
shall be provided to the Members Committee. 
 
(c) The Office of the Interconnection shall prepare annual operating and capital budgets and 
multi-year projections of expenses and capital in accordance with processes and procedures 
established by the PJM Board, and shall timely submit its budgets to the Finance Committee for 
review.  The Office of the Interconnection shall also provide the Finance Committee with such 
additional financial information regarding other matters pertaining to the appropriate level of 
PJM’s rates, proposed major new investments and allocation and disposition of funds as may be 
reasonably requested by the Finance Committee to assist it with its review.  PJM shall provide 
complete and transparent financial data and reporting to all Members through the PJM Finance 
Committee, such data and reporting to include but not necessarily be limited to:  unaudited 
quarterly PJM financial statements; audited annual PJM financial statements; quarterly PJM 
FERC Form 3-Q; annual PJM FERC Form 1; and PJM budget and forecast data and Results. 
 
7.5.2 Adoption of Budgets. 
 
The PJM Board shall adopt, upon consideration of the advice and recommendations of the 
Finance Committee, operating and capital budgets for the LLC, and shall distribute to the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 7. PJM BOARD --> OA 7.5 Operating and Capital Budgets; Sources and 
Uses of Fu 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
Members for their information final annual budgets for the following fiscal year not later than 60 
days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year of the LLC. 
 
 

