Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 8. MEMBERS COMMITTEE --> OA 8.1 Sectors. 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
8.1 Sectors. 
 
8.1.1 Designation. 
 
Voting on the Senior Standing Committees shall be by sectors.  The Senior Standing Committee 
shall be composed of five sectors, one for Generation Owners, one for Other Suppliers, one for 
Transmission Owners, one for Electric Distributors, and one for End-Use Customers, provided 
that there are at least five Members in each Sector.  Except as specified in Operating Agreement, 
section 8.1.2, each Voting Member shall have one vote.  Each Voting Member shall, within 
thirty (30) days after the Effective Date or, if later, thirty (30) days after becoming a Member, 
and thereafter not later than 10 days prior to the Annual Meeting of the Members for each annual 
period beginning with the Annual Meeting of the Members, submit to the President a sealed 
notice of the sector in which it is qualified to vote or, if qualified to participate in more than one 
sector, its rank order preference of the sectors in which it wishes to vote, and shall be assigned to 
its highest-ranked sector that has the minimum number of Members specified above.  If a 
Member is assigned to a sector other than its highest-ranked sector in accordance with the 
preceding sentence, its higher sector preference or preferences shall be honored as soon as a 
higher-ranked sector has five or more Members.  A Voting Member may designate as its voting 
sector any sector for which it or its Affiliate or Related Party Members is qualified.  The sector 
designations of the Voting Members shall be announced by the Office of the Interconnection at 
the Annual Meeting and shall apply to all Senior Standing Committees. 
 
8.1.2 Related Parties. 
 
The Members in a group of Related Parties shall each be entitled to a vote, provided that all the 
Members in a group of Related Parties that chooses to exercise such rights shall be assigned to 
the Electric Distributor sector. 
 
8.1.3 Sector Challenge. 
 
(a) Any Member (“Challenging Member’) may request that PJM review the qualification of 
another Member (“Challenged Member”) in the Challenging Member’s sector to participate in 
that sector.  Any five Members may request that PJM review the qualification of another 
Member to participate in the sector in which that Member is presently assigned. 
 
(b) A request pursuant to section 8.1.3(a)  above, (“Challenge”) shall be submitted in writing 
and shall describe the basis for the Challenge, which shall include, but not limited to, the reasons 
why the Challenged Member may not have any Active and Significant Business Interests in its 
present sector.  Except for new Members, a Challenge must be submitted within 30 days after the 
Annual Meeting of the Members.  For new Members, a Challenge must be submitted within 30 
days after the meeting in which they are introduced. 
 
(c) PJM shall review the Challenge and inform the Challenged Member of the Challenge by 
providing a copy of the Challenge to the Challenged Member as soon as practicable, and in no 
case later than 10 working days after PJM receives the Challenge. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 8. MEMBERS COMMITTEE --> OA 8.1 Sectors. 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
(d) The Challenged Member shall submit to PJM a list of the sectors in which it is qualified 
to vote and its rank order preference of those sectors.  PJM may also request information from 
the Challenged Member to assist in determining the Active and Significant Business Interests of 
Challenged Member.  The Challenged Member shall respond to any such request within 60 days 
from the date of the request, which shall be the date the request was issued by PJM. 
 
(e) Considering the sector definitions and Active and Significant Business Interests, PJM, in  
its sole discretion, shall determine if the Challenged Member meets the requirements to 
participate in its present sector.  PJM shall make this determination within the later of 30 days 
after receiving the information provided pursuant to section 8.1.3(d) above, or 10 days after the 
next scheduled meeting of the Members Committee. 
 
(f) If the Challenged Member does not meet the requirements for its present sector, PJM 
shall assign the Challenged Member to the next highest preferred sector for which it is qualified 
in accordance with the rank order preference established by the Challenged Member pursuant to 
section 8.1.3(d) above. 
 
(g) PJM shall notify the Challenged Member and Challenging Member as soon as practicable 
after making a determination pursuant to section 8.1.3(e) above, and shall announce the outcome 
of any such determination at the Members Committee meeting following PJM’s decision.  PJM 
shall disclose the identity of the Challenging Party and the Challenged Party when making the 
announcement. 
 
(h) If a sector is required pursuant to section 8.1.3(e) above, it shall become effective on the 
date of the Members Committee meeting following PJM’s decision. 
 
(i) Until PJM rules on a Challenge, the Challenged Member shall remain in its present sector 
and shall be permitted to vote in that sector. 
 
 

