Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 8. MEMBERS COMMITTEE --> OA 8.2 Representatives. 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
8.2 Representatives. 
 
8.2.1 Appointment. 
 
Each Member may appoint one representative to serve on each of the Standing Committees, 
potentially a different person for each committee, with authority to act for that Member with 
respect to actions or decisions thereof.  Each Member may appoint up to three alternate 
representatives to each such committee to act for that Member at meetings thereof in the absence 
of the representative.  A Member participating in the PJM Interchange Energy Market through an 
agent may be represented on the Standing Committee by that agent.  A Member shall appoint its 
representatives and alternates by giving written notice thereof to the Office of the 
Interconnection.  Members that are Affiliates or Related Parties may each appoint a 
representative and alternate representatives to each of the Standing Committees, but shall vote on 
Senior Standing Committees as specified in Operating Agreement, section 8.1. 
 
8.2.2 Regulatory Authorities. 
 
FERC and any other federal agency with regulatory authority over a Member and each State 
electric utility regulatory commission with regulatory jurisdiction within the PJM Region, may 
nominate one representative to serve as an ex officio non-voting member on each of the Standing 
Committees.  
 
8.2.3 State Offices of Consumer Advocate. 
 
(a) Each State Consumer Advocate may nominate one representative to serve as an ex officio 
member on each of the Standing Committees.  Upon a written request by a State Consumer 
Advocate to the Office of the Interconnection, and upon the payment of the fee prescribed by 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 3, section (b), a State Consumer Advocate may designate a 
representative to each of the Standing Committees who, subject to subparagraph b, shall be 
entitled to cast one (1) non-divisible vote in the End-Use Customer Sector in Senior Standing 
Committees.  As an ex officio member, a State Consumer Advocate shall have no liability under 
this Agreement, other than the annual fee required by Operating Agreement, Schedule 3.  The 
State Consumer Advocates shall not be entitled to indemnification by the other Members under 
any provisions of this Agreement.  Additionally, the State Consumer Advocates shall not be 
eligible to participate in any markets managed by PJM under the terms contained in this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) Each State Consumer Advocate shall be entitled to cast only one (1) vote in the Senior 
Standing Committees per State or the District of Columbia.  If more than one representative from 
a given state has been nominated to be a voting member of the Senior Standing Committees, all 
State Offices of Consumer Advocate from such state that have nominated representatives to vote 
at the Senior Standing Committees shall designate to the Office of the Interconnection one (1) 
representative who shall be entitled to vote on all of their behalf’s, prior to being permitted to 
vote at any meetings of the Senior Standing Committees. 
 
8.2.4 Initial Representatives. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 8. MEMBERS COMMITTEE --> OA 8.2 Representatives. 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
 
Initial representatives to the Members Committee shall be appointed no later than 30 days after 
the Effective Date; provided, however, that each representative to the Management Committee 
under the Operating Agreement of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. as in effect immediately prior to 
the Effective Date shall automatically become a representative to the Members Committee on the 
Effective Date unless replaced as specified in section 8.2.5 below.  An entity becoming a 
Member shall appoint a representative to each Standing Committee no later than 30 days after 
becoming a Member. 
 
8.2.5 Change of or Substitution for a Representative. 
 
Any Member may change its representative or alternate on the Standing Committees at any time 
by providing written notice to the Office of the Interconnection identifying its replacement 
representative or alternate.  Any representative to the Standing Committees may, by written 
notice to the applicable Chair, designate a substitute representative from that Member to act for 
him or her with respect to any matter specified in such notice. 
 
 

