Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 8. MEMBERS COMMITTEE --> OA 8.3 Meetings. 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
8.3 Meetings. 
 
8.3.1 Regular and Special Meetings. 
 
The Standing Committees shall hold regular meetings, no less frequently than once each calendar 
quarter at such time and at such place as shall be fixed by the Chair thereof.  The Members 
Committee may adopt bylaws, including rules of procedure, governing its meetings and activities 
and the meetings and activities of the other Standing Committees, and other committees, 
subcommittees, task forces, working groups and other bodies under its auspices.  The Members 
Committee shall hold an Annual Meeting of the Members each calendar year at such time and 
place as shall be specified by the Chair.  At the Annual Meeting of the Members, Board 
Members as necessary shall be elected.  The Standing Committees may hold special meetings for 
one or more designated purposes within the scope of the authority of the applicable committee 
when called by the Chair on the Chair’s own initiative, or at the request of five or more 
representatives on the applicable committee.  The notice of a regular or special meeting shall be 
distributed to the representatives as specified in Operating Agreement, section 18.14 not later 
than seven days prior to the meeting, shall state the time and place of the meeting, and shall 
include an agenda sufficient to notify the representatives of the substance of matters to be 
considered at the meeting; provided, however, that meetings may be called on shorter notice at 
the discretion of the Chair as the Chair shall deem necessary to deal with an emergency or to 
meet a deadline for action. 
 
8.3.2 Attendance. 
 
Regular and special meetings may be conducted in person or by telephone, or other electronic 
means as authorized by the Members Committee.  The attendance in person or by telephone or 
other electronic means of a representative or a duly designated substitute shall be required in 
order to vote. 
 
8.3.3 Quorum. 
 
The attendance as specified in Operating Agreement, section 8.3.2 of a majority of the Voting 
Members from each of at least three sectors that each have at least five Members shall constitute 
a quorum at any meeting of the Members Committee; however, a quorum shall only require ten 
Voting Members from any sector that has more than 20 Voting Members. At the beginning of 
any meeting of the Members Committee, a determination shall be made if a quorum is present.  
Once the determination is made that a quorum is present at the beginning of the meeting, a 
quorum will be deemed to continue during the entire scheduled time of the meeting, as specified 
in the notice of the meeting that is published and distributed as specified in Operating 
Agreement, section 8.3.1.  Actions taken during this scheduled time will be deemed to have been 
taken with a quorum present, and quorum calls are not permitted during this scheduled time.  
Other than actions taken during the scheduled time for meeting of the Members Committee in 
accordance with this rule, no action may be taken by the Members Committee at a meeting 
unless a quorum is present.  However, if a meeting of the Members Committee extends beyond 
its scheduled time, any Voting Members then present shall have the right to request a quorum 
call.  The Voting Members then present shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 8. MEMBERS COMMITTEE --> OA 8.3 Meetings. 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
time until a quorum shall be present. At the discretion of the Chair, administrative or reporting 
items may be accomplished if a quorum is not deemed to be present.   A quorum shall not be 
required to conduct a meeting of any Committee other than the Members Committee; however, 
the Chair of any committee other than the Members Committee, in his discretion, may declare 
adjourned any meeting which fewer than ten Members attend. 
 

