Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 8. MEMBERS COMMITTEE --> OA 8.5 Chair and Vice Chair of the 
Members Committee. 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
8.5 Chair and Vice Chair of the Members Committee. 
 
8.5.1 Selection and Term. 
 
The representatives or their alternates or substitutes on the Members Committee shall elect from 
among the representatives a Chair and a Vice Chair.  The offices of Chair and Vice Chair shall 
be held for a term of one year.  The terms shall commence at the last regular meeting of the 
Members Committee each calendar year and end at the last regular meeting of the Members 
Committee of the following calendar year or until succession to the office occurs as specified 
herein.  Except as specified below, at the last regular meeting of the Members Committee each 
calendar year, the Vice Chair shall succeed to the office of Chair, and a new Vice Chair shall be 
elected.  If the office of Chair becomes vacant, or the Chair leaves the employment of the 
Member for whom the Chair is the representative, or the Chair is no longer the representative of 
such Member, the Vice Chair shall succeed to the office of Chair, and a new Vice Chair shall be 
elected at the next regular or special meeting of the Members Committee, both such officers to 
serve until the last regular meeting of the Members Committee of the calendar year following 
such succession or election to a vacant office.  If the office of Vice Chair becomes vacant, or the 
Vice Chair leaves the employment of the Member for whom the Vice Chair is the representative, 
or the Vice Chair is no longer the representative of such Member, a new Vice Chair shall be 
elected at the next regular or special meeting of the Members Committee. 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Chair and Vice Chair whose terms commenced on May 1, 
2003, shall hold their offices until the last regular meeting of the Members Committee in 2004, 
and there shall not be an election of a new Vice Chair at the last regular meeting of the Members 
Committee in 2003. 
 
8.5.2 Duties. 
 
The Chair shall call and preside at meetings of the Members Committee, and shall carry out such 
other responsibilities as the Members Committee shall assign.  The Chair shall cause minutes of 
each meeting of the Members Committee to be taken and maintained, and shall cause notices of 
meetings of the Members Committee to be distributed.  The Vice Chair shall preside at meetings 
of the Members Committee in the absence of the Chair, and shall otherwise act for the Chair at 
the Chair’s request. 
 
 

