Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 8. MEMBERS COMMITTEE --> OA 8.6 Senior, Standing, and Other 
Committees. 
Effective Date: 5/8/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1265-000 - Page 1 
8.6 Senior, Standing, and Other Committees. 
 
The Members Committee shall establish and maintain the Markets and Reliability Committee as 
a Senior Standing Committee.  The Members Committee also shall establish and maintain the 
Market Implementation Committee, Planning Committee, Operating Committee and Risk 
Management Committee (all under the Markets and Reliability Committee) as Standing 
Committees. The Members Committee may establish or dissolve other Standing Committees 
from time to time.  The President shall appoint the Chair and Vice Chair of each Senior Standing 
Committee and Standing Committee and, after consultation with the Chair of a Standing 
Committee, the President shall appoint the Chair and Vice Chair of any other committees. 
 
8.6.1 Markets and Reliability Committee. 
 
The Markets and Reliability Committee shall be established by and report to the Members 
Committee. 
 
The Markets and Reliability Committee shall provide advice and recommendations concerning 
the reliable and secure operation of the PJM Interchange Energy Market and Ancillary Services 
markets, mechanisms to provide an efficient marketplace for products needed for resource 
adequacy and operating security, and otherwise as directed by the Members Committee.  The 
Markets and Reliability Committee also addresses matters related to the reliable and secure 
operation of the PJM system and planning strategies to assure the continued ability of the 
Members to operate reliably and economically, consistent with reliability principles and 
standards.  
 
Voting on the Markets and Reliability Committee shall be by sectors in accordance with 
Operating Agreement, section 8.1 and Operating Agreement, section 8.4.  Neither the Markets 
and Reliability Committee nor the Members Committee shall have authority to control or direct 
the actions of the PJM Board or the Office of the Interconnection with regard to the short-term 
reliability of grid operations within the PJM Region. The responsibilities of the Markets and 
Reliability Committee shall, more specifically, include, but not be limited to, the following:  
 
(a) The Markets and Reliability Committee shall develop and approve a Markets and 
Reliability Committee Annual Plan including prioritization of planned activities and initiation of 
activities supporting the approved plan. 
 
(b) The Markets and Reliability Committee shall provide advice and recommendations 
concerning issues pertaining to the operation and administration of the PJM markets, including 
but not limited to amendments to PJM’s Operating Agreement, the PJMTariff, or market rules 
and procedures as necessary or appropriate to foster competition and assure the fair, reliable and 
efficient operation and administration of the PJM markets, as well as the reliable operation of the 
grid. 
 
(c) The Markets and Reliability Committee shall provide advice and recommendations as are 
necessary or appropriate to assure a high level of economy of service in the operation of the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market and other markets, in accordance with established market operation 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 8. MEMBERS COMMITTEE --> OA 8.6 Senior, Standing, and Other 
Committees. 
Effective Date: 5/8/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1265-000 - Page 2 
principles, practices and procedures, recognizing individual participant requirements for services, 
contractual obligations and other pertinent factors. 
 
(d) The Markets and Reliability Committee shall provide advice and recommendations 
concerning studies and analyses relating to the overall efficacy of the PJM Interchange Energy 
Market and in carrying out actions as may be initiated as a result thereof. 
  
(e) The Markets and Reliability Committee shall provide advice and recommendations 
concerning revisions to the Operating Agreement, the Reliability Assurance Agreement, and the 
PJM Tariff that pertain to its areas of responsibility. 
 
(f) The Markets and Reliability Committee shall make annual and timely recommendations 
concerning the generating capacity reserve requirement and related demand-side valuation 
factors for consideration by the Members Committee, in order to assist the Members Committee 
in making recommendations to the PJM Board of Managers. 
 
(g) The Markets and Reliability Committee shall provide direction to the Market 
Implementation Committee, which committee shall report to the Markets and Reliability 
Committee. The Market Implementation Committee shall provide advice and recommendations 
to the Markets and Reliability Committee directed to the advancement and promotion of 
competitive wholesale electricity markets in the PJM Region, and perform such other functions 
as the Markets and Reliability Committee may direct from time to time. 
 
(h) The Markets and Reliability Committee shall provide direction to the Operating 
Committee and Planning Committee, which committees shall report to the Markets and 
Reliability Committee. The Operating Committee shall advise the Markets and Reliability 
Committee and PJM on matters pertaining to the reliable and secure operation of the PJM 
Region and the PJM Interchange Energy Market, as appropriate, and other matters as the 
Markets and Reliability Committee may request. The Planning Committee shall advise the 
Markets and Reliability Committee and PJM on matters pertaining to system reliability, security, 
economy of service, and planning strategies and policies and other matters as the Markets and 
Reliability Committee may request. The Markets and Reliability Committee shall review 
technical recommendations and changes initiated by the Operating Committee and Planning 
Committees and provide comments as needed. 
 
(i) The Markets and Reliability Committee shall perform such other functions, directly or 
through delegation to a Standing Committee, subcommittee, working group or task force 
reporting to the Markets and Reliability Committee, as the Members Committee may direct. 
 
(j) The Markets and Reliability Committee shall create subcommittees, working groups or 
task forces when needed to assist in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the Markets 
and Reliability Committee. 
 
8.6.2 [Reserved.] 
 
8.6.3   Other Committees and Bodies.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 8. MEMBERS COMMITTEE --> OA 8.6 Senior, Standing, and Other 
Committees. 
Effective Date: 5/8/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1265-000 - Page 3 
 
The Standing Committees may form, select the membership, and oversee the activities, of such 
other committees, subcommittees, task forces, working groups or other bodies as it shall deem 
appropriate, to provide advice and recommendations to the Standing Committees or Office of the 
Interconnection.  Each such group shall terminate automatically upon completion of its assigned 
tasks and, if not terminated, shall terminate two years after formation unless reauthorized by the 
Standing Committee that directed its formation. 
 
 

