Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions I - L 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 1 
Definitions I - L 
 
Immediate-need Reliability Project: 
 
“Immediate-need Reliability Project” shall mean a reliability-based transmission enhancement or 
expansion that the Office of the Interconnection has identified to resolve a need that must be 
addressed within three years or less from the year the Office of the Interconnection identified the 
existing or projected limitations on the Transmission System that gave rise to the need for such 
enhancement or expansion pursuant to the study process described in  Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 6, section 1.5.3. 
 
Inadvertent Interchange:  
 
“Inadvertent Interchange” shall mean the difference between net actual energy flow and net 
scheduled energy flow into or out of the individual Control Areas operated by PJM. 
 
Increment Offer: 
 
“Increment Offer” shall mean a type of Virtual Transaction that is an offer to sell energy at a 
specified location in the Day-ahead Energy Market.  A cleared Increment Offer results in 
scheduled generation at the specified location in the Day-ahead Energy Market. 
 
Incremental Energy Offer: 
 
“Incremental Energy Offer” shall mean the cost in dollars per MWh of providing an additional 
MWh from a synchronized unit. It consists primarily of the cost of fuel, as determined by the 
unit’s incremental heat rate (adjusted by the performance factor) times the fuel cost. It also 
includes operating costs, Maintenance Adders, emissions allowances, tax credits, and energy 
market opportunity costs. 
 
Incremental Multi-Driver Project: 
 
“Incremental Multi-Driver Project” shall mean a Multi-Driver Project that is planned as 
described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.10(h). 
 
Information Request: 
 
“Information Request” shall mean a written request, in accordance with the terms of the 
Operating Agreement for disclosure of confidential information pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, section 18.17.4. 
 
Integer Relaxation: 
 
“Integer Relaxation” shall mean the process by which the commitment status variable for an 
Eligible Fast-Start Resource is allowed to vary between zero and one, inclusive of zero and one, 
as further described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2.2. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions I - L 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 2 
 
Interface Pricing Point: 
 
“Interface Pricing Point” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 2.6A, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2.6A. 
 
Internal Market Buyer:  
 
“Internal Market Buyer” shall mean a Market Buyer making purchases of energy from the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market for ultimate consumption by end-users inside the PJM Region that 
are served by Network Transmission Service 
 
Interregional Transmission Project: 
 
“Interregional Transmission Project” shall mean transmission facilities that would be located 
within two or more neighboring transmission planning regions and are determined by each of 
those regions to be a more efficient or cost effective solution to regional transmission needs. 
 
LLC: 
 
“LLC” shall mean PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company. 
 
Load Management: 
 
“Load Management” shall mean a Demand Resource (“DR”) as defined in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Load Management Event: 
 
“Load Management Event” shall mean a) a single temporally contiguous dispatch of Demand 
Resources in a Compliance Aggregation Area during an Operating Day, or b) multiple dispatches 
of Demand Resources in a Compliance Aggregation Area during an Operating Day that are 
temporally contiguous. 
 
Load Reduction Event: 
 
“Load Reduction Event” shall mean a reduction in demand by a Member or Special Member for 
the purpose of participating in the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Load Serving Charging Energy:  
 
“Load Serving Charging Energy” shall mean energy that is purchased from the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market and stored in an Energy Storage Resource or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource for 
later resale to end-use load. 
 
Load Serving Entity: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions I - L 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 3 
 
“Load Serving Entity” or “LSE” shall mean any entity (or the duly designated agent of such an 
entity), including a load aggregator or power marketer, (i) serving end-users within the PJM 
Region, and (ii) that has been granted the authority or has an obligation pursuant to state or local 
law, regulation or franchise to sell electric energy to end-users located within the PJM Region.  
Load Serving Entity shall include any end-use customer that qualifies under state rules or a 
utility retail tariff to manage directly its own supply of electric power and energy and use of 
transmission and ancillary services.  
 
Local Plan: 
 
“Local Plan” shall include Supplemental Projects as identified by the Transmission Owners 
within their zone and Subregional RTEP projects developed to comply with all applicable 
reliability criteria, including Transmission Owners’ planning criteria or based on market 
efficiency analysis and in consideration of Public Policy Requirements.   
 
Location: 
 
“Location” as used in the Economic Load Response rules shall mean an end-use customer site as 
defined by the relevant electric distribution company account number. 
 
Locational Marginal Price: 
 
“Locational Marginal Price” or “LMP” shall mean the market clearing marginal price for energy 
at the location the energy is delivered or received, calculated as specified in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 2. 
 
LOC Deviation:   
 
“LOC Deviation,” shall mean, for units other than wind or solar units, Hybrid Resources, or 
Energy Storage Resource Model Participants, the LOC Deviation shall equal the desired 
megawatt amount for the resource determined according to the point on the Final Offer curve 
corresponding to the Real-time Settlement Interval real-time Locational Marginal Price at the 
resource’s bus and adjusted for any reduction in megawatts due to Regulation, Synchronized 
Reserve, or Secondary Reserve assignments and limited to the lesser of the unit’s Economic 
Maximum or the unit’s Generation Resource Maximum Output, minus the actual output of the 
unit.  For wind or solar units, Hybrid Resources, or Energy Storage Resource Model Participants, 
the LOC Deviation shall mean the deviation of the generating unit’s output equal to the lesser of 
the PJM forecasted output, inclusive of state of charge, for the unit or the desired megawatt 
amount for the resource determined according to the point on the Final Offer curve 
corresponding to the Real-time Settlement Interval real-time Locational Marginal Price at the 
resource’s bus and adjusted for any reduction in megawatts due to Regulation, Synchronized 
Reserve, or Secondary Reserve assignments, and shall be limited to the lesser of the unit’s 
Economic Maximum or the unit’s Generation Resource Maximum Output, minus the actual 
output of the unit, where the actual output of the unit is floored at 0. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions I - L 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 4 
 
Long-lead Project: 
 
“Long-lead Project” shall mean a transmission enhancement or expansion with an in-service date 
more than five years from the year in which, pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, 
section 1.5.8(c), the Office of the Interconnection posts the violations, system conditions, or 
Public Policy Requirements to be addressed by the enhancement or expansion. 
 
Loss Price: 
 
“Loss Price” shall mean the loss component of the Locational Marginal Price, which is the effect 
on transmission loss costs (whether positive or negative) associated with increasing the output of 
a generation resource or decreasing the consumption by a Demand Resource based on the effect 
of increased generation from or consumption by the resource on transmission losses, calculated 
as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 2. 
 
 
 

