Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions G - H 
Effective Date: 12/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 1 
Definitions G - H 
 
Generating Market Buyer: 
 
“Generating Market Buyer” shall mean an Internal Market Buyer that is a Load Serving Entity 
that owns or has contractual rights to the output of generation resources capable of serving the 
Market Buyer’s load in the PJM Region, or of selling energy or related services in the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market or elsewhere.  
 
Generation Capacity Resource: 
 
“Generation Capacity Resource” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Generation Owner: 
 
“Generation Owner” shall mean a Member that owns or leases, with right equivalent to 
ownership, or otherwise controls and operates one or more operating generation resources 
located in the PJM Region.  The foregoing notwithstanding, for a planned generation resource to 
qualify a Member as a Generation Owner, such resource shall have cleared an RPM auction, and 
for Energy Resources, the resource shall have a FERC-jurisdictional interconnection agreement 
or wholesale market participation agreement within PJM.  Purchasing all or a portion of the 
output of a generation resource shall not be sufficient to qualify a Member as a Generation 
Owner.  For purposes of Members Committee sector classification a Member that is primarily a 
retail end-user of electricity that owns generation may qualify as a Generation Owner if:  (1) the 
generation resource is the subject of a FERC-jurisdictional interconnection agreement or 
wholesale market participation agreement within PJM; (2) the average physical unforced 
capacity owned by the Member and its affiliates over the five Planning Periods immediately 
preceding the relevant Planning Period exceeds the average PJM capacity obligation of the 
Member and its affiliates over the same time period; and (3) the average energy produced by the 
Member and its affiliates within PJM over the five Planning Periods immediately preceding the 
relevant Planning Period exceeds the average energy consumed by the Member and its affiliates 
within PJM over the same time period. 
 
Generation Resource Maximum Output:   
 
“Generation Resource Maximum Output” shall mean, for Customer Facilities identified in an 
Interconnection Service Agreement or Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, the 
Generation Resource Maximum Output for a generating unit shall equal the unit’s pro rata share 
of the Maximum Facility Output, determined by the Economic Maximum values for the 
available units at the Customer Facility.  For generating units not identified in an Interconnection 
Service Agreement or Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, the Generation Resource 
Maximum Output shall equal the generating unit’s Economic Maximum. 
 
Generator Forced Outage: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions G - H 
Effective Date: 12/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 2 
“Generator Forced Outage” shall mean an immediate reduction in output or capacity or removal 
from service, in whole or in part, of a generating unit by reason of an Emergency or threatened 
Emergency, unanticipated failure, or other cause beyond the control of the owner or operator of 
the facility, as specified in the relevant portions of the PJM Manuals.  A reduction in output or 
removal from service of a generating unit in response to changes in market conditions shall not 
constitute a Generator Forced Outage. 
 
Generator Maintenance Outage: 
 
“Generator Maintenance Outage” shall mean the scheduled removal from service, in whole or in 
part, of a generating unit in order to perform necessary repairs on specific components of the 
facility, if removal of the facility meets the guidelines specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Generator Planned Outage: 
 
“Generator Planned Outage” shall mean the scheduled removal from service, in whole or in part, 
of a generating unit for inspection, maintenance or repair with the approval of the Office of the 
Interconnection in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
Good Utility Practice: 
 
“Good Utility Practice” shall mean any of the practices, methods and acts engaged in or 
approved by a significant portion of the electric utility industry during the relevant time period, 
or any of the practices, methods and acts which, in the exercise of reasonable judgment in light 
of the facts known at the time the decision was made, could have been expected to accomplish 
the desired result at a reasonable cost consistent with good business practices, reliability, safety 
and expedition.  Good Utility Practice is not intended to be limited to the optimum practice, 
method, or act to the exclusion of all others, but rather is intended to include acceptable 
practices, methods, or acts generally accepted in the region; including those practices required by 
Federal Power Act Section 215(a)(4). 
 
Hot Weather Alert: 
 
“Hot Weather Alert” shall mean the notice provided by PJM to PJM Members, Transmission 
Owners, resource owners and operators, customers, and regulators to prepare personnel and 
facilities for extreme hot and/or humid weather conditions which may cause capacity 
requirements and/or unit unavailability to be substantially higher than forecast are expected to 
persist for an extended period.  
 
Hybrid Resource: 
 
“Hybrid Resource” shall mean an Energy Resource or a Generation Capacity Resource 
composed of more than one component behind the same Point of Interconnection operating in 
the capacity, energy, and/or ancillary services market(s) as a single integrated resource, whereby 
each component is a separate generation and/or storage technology type. A Hybrid Resource 
forms all or part of a Mixed Technology Facility. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions G - H 
Effective Date: 12/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 3 
 
 
 

