Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions O - P 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 1 
Definitions O - P 
 
Offer Data: 
 
“Offer Data” shall mean the scheduling, operations planning, dispatch, new resource, and other 
data and information necessary to schedule and dispatch generation resources and Demand 
Resource(s) for the provision of energy and other services and the maintenance of the reliability 
and security of the Transmission System in the PJM Region, and specified for submission to the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market for such purposes by the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
Office of the Interconnection: 
 
“Office of the Interconnection” shall mean the employees and agents of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
subject to the supervision and oversight of the PJM Board, acting pursuant to the Operating Agreement.  
 
Office of the Interconnection Control Center: 
 
“Office of the Interconnection Control Center” shall mean the equipment, facilities and 
personnel used by the Office of the Interconnection to coordinate and direct the operation of the 
PJM Region and to administer the PJM Interchange Energy Market, including facilities and 
equipment used to communicate and coordinate with the Market Participants in connection with 
transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market or the operation of the PJM Region. 
 
On-Site Generators: 
 
“On-Site Generators” shall mean generation facilities or portions of a generation facility 
(including Behind The Meter Generation) that (i) are not Generation Capacity Resources, (ii) are 
not injecting into the grid for the portion of a generation facility that participates as an Economic 
Load Response Participant or as a Demand Resource, (iii) are either synchronized or non-
synchronized to the Transmission System, and (iv) can be used to reduce demand for the purpose 
of participating in the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) or PJM Open Access Same-time 
Information System: 
 
“Open Access Same-Time Information System,” “PJM Open Access Same-time Information 
System”  or “OASIS” shall mean the electronic communication system and information system 
and standards of conduct contained in Part 37 and Part 38 of the Commission’s regulations and 
all additional requirements implemented by subsequent Commission orders dealing with OASIS 
for the collection and dissemination of information about transmission services in the PJM 
Region, established and operated by the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with FERC 
standards and requirements. 
 
Open-Loop Hybrid Resource: 
 
“Open-Loop Hybrid Resource” shall mean a Hybrid Resource with a storage component that 
operates by charging its storage component from the grid. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions O - P 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 2 
 
Operating Day: 
 
“Operating Day” shall mean the daily 24 hour period beginning at midnight for which 
transactions on the PJM Interchange Energy Market are scheduled. 
 
Operating Margin: 
 
“Operating Margin” shall mean the incremental adjustments, measured in megawatts, required in 
PJM Region operations in order to accommodate, on a first contingency basis, an operating 
contingency in the PJM Region resulting from operations in an interconnected Control Area.  
Such adjustments may result in constraints causing Transmission Congestion Charges, or may 
result in Ancillary Services charges pursuant to the PJM Tariff. 
 
Operating Margin Customer: 
 
“Operating Margin Customer” shall mean a Control Area purchasing Operating Margin pursuant 
to an agreement between such other Control Area and the LLC. 
 
Operating Reserve: 
 
“Operating Reserve” shall mean the amount of generating capacity scheduled to be available for 
a specified period of an Operating Day to ensure the reliable operation of the PJM Region, as 
specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Operating Reserve Demand Curve:  
 
“Operating Reserve Demand Curve” shall mean a curve with prices on the y-axis and megawatts 
on the x-axis, which defines the relationship between each incremental megawatt of reserves that 
can be used to meet a given reserve requirement. 
 
Operator-initiated Commitment:  
 
“Operator-initiated Commitment” shall mean a commitment after the Day-ahead Energy Market 
and Day-ahead Scheduling Reserves Market, whether manual or automated, for a reason other 
than minimizing the total production costs of serving load. 
 
Original PJM Agreement: 
 
“Original PJM Agreement” shall mean that certain agreement between certain of the Members, 
originally dated September 26, 1956, and as amended and supplemented up to and including 
December 31, 1996, relating to the coordinated operation of their electric supply systems and the 
interchange of electric capacity and energy among their systems. 
 
Other Supplier: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions O - P 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 3 
“Other Supplier” shall mean a Member that:  (i) is engaged in buying, selling or transmitting 
electric energy, capacity, ancillary services, financial transmission rights or other services 
available under PJM’s governing documents in or through the Interconnection or has a good faith 
intent to do so, and; (ii) does not qualify for the Generation Owner, Electric Distributor, 
Transmission Owner or End-Use Customer sectors. 
 
PJM Board: 
 
“PJM Board” shall mean the Board of Managers of the LLC, acting pursuant to the Operating 
Agreement, except when such term is being used in Tariff, Attachment M, in which case PJM 
Board shall mean the Board of Managers of PJM or its designated representative, exclusive of 
any members of PJM Management. 
 
PJM Control Area: 
 
“PJM Control Area” shall mean the Control Area recognized by NERC as the PJM Control Area. 
 
PJM Dispute Resolution Procedures: 
 
“PJM Dispute Resolution Procedures” shall mean the procedures for the resolution of disputes 
set forth in Operating Agreement, Schedule 5. 
 
PJM Governing Agreements: 
 
“PJM Governing Agreements” shall mean the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, the 
Operating Agreement, the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement, or any other applicable agreement approved by the FERC and intended to 
govern the relationship by and among PJM and any of its Members. 
 
PJM Interchange: 
 
“PJM Interchange” shall mean the following, as determined in accordance with the  Operating 
Agreement and Tariff: (a) for a Market Participant that is a Network Service User, the amount by 
which its interval Equivalent Load exceeds, or is exceeded by, the sum of the interval outputs of 
its operating generating resources; or (b) for a Market Participant that is not a Network Service 
User, the amount of its Spot Market Backup; or (c) the interval scheduled deliveries of Spot 
Market Energy by a Market Seller from an External Resource; or (d) the interval net metered 
output of any other Market Seller; or (e) the interval scheduled deliveries of Spot Market Energy 
to an External Market Buyer; or (f) the interval scheduled deliveries to an Internal Market Buyer 
that is not a Network Service User. 
 
PJM Interchange Energy Market: 
 
“PJM Interchange Energy Market” shall mean the regional competitive market administered by 
the Office of the Interconnection for the purchase and sale of spot electric energy at wholesale in 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions O - P 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 4 
interstate commerce and related services established pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 
1, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix. 
 
PJM Interchange Export: 
 
“PJM Interchange Export” shall mean the following, as determined in accordance with the 
Operating Agreement and Tariff:  (a) for a Market Participant that is a Network Service User, the 
amount by which its interval Equivalent Load is exceeded by the sum of the interval outputs of 
its operating generating resources; or (b) for a Market Participant that is not a Network Service 
User, the amount of its Spot Market Backup sales; or (c) the interval scheduled deliveries of Spot 
Market Energy by a Market Seller from an External Resource; or (d) the interval net metered 
output of any other Market Seller. 
 
PJM Interchange Import: 
 
“PJM Interchange Import” shall mean the following, as determined in accordance with the 
Operating Agreement and Tariff:  (a) for a Market Participant that is a Network Service User, the 
amount by which its interval Equivalent Load exceeds the sum of the interval outputs of its 
operating generating resources; or (b) for a Market Participant that is not a Network Service 
User, the amount of its Spot Market Backup purchases; or (c) the interval scheduled deliveries of 
Spot Market Energy to an External Market Buyer; or (d) the interval scheduled deliveries to an 
Internal Market Buyer that is not a Network Service User. 
 
PJM Manuals:  
 
“PJM Manuals” shall mean the instructions, rules, procedures and guidelines established by the 
Office of the Interconnection for the operation, planning, and accounting requirements of the 
PJM Region and the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
PJM Mid-Atlantic Region: 
 
“PJM Mid-Atlantic Region” shall mean the aggregate of the Transmission Facilities of Atlantic 
City Electric Company, Baltimore Gas and Electric Company, Delmarva Power and Light 
Company, Jersey Central Power and Light Company, Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission, 
LLC, PECO Energy Company, PPL Electric Utilities Corporation, Potomac Electric Power 
Company, Public Service Electric and Gas Company, and Rockland Electric Company. 
 
PJM Region: 
 
“PJM Region” shall mean the aggregate of the Zones within PJM as set forth in Tariff, 
Attachment J. 
 
PJMSettlement:  
 
“PJMSettlement” or “PJM Settlement, Inc.” shall mean PJM Settlement, Inc. (or its successor), 
established by PJM as set forth in Operating Agreement, section 3.3.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions O - P 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 5 
 
PJM South Region: 
 
“PJM South Region” shall mean the Transmission Facilities of Virginia Electric and Power 
Company. 
 
PJM Tariff, Tariff, O.A.T.T., OATT or PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff:  
 
“PJM Tariff,”  “Tariff,” “O.A.T.T.,” or “PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff” shall mean that 
certain “PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff”, including any schedules, appendices, or 
exhibits attached thereto, on file with FERC and as amended from time to time thereafter. 
 
PJM West Region: 
 
“PJM West Region” shall mean the Zones of Allegheny Power; Commonwealth Edison 
Company (including Commonwealth Edison Co. of Indiana); AEP East Affiliate Companies; 
The Dayton Power and Light Company; the Duquesne Light Company; American Transmission 
Systems, Incorporated; Duke Energy Ohio, Inc., Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. and East Kentucky 
Power Cooperative, Inc. 
 
Planning Period: 
 
“Planning Period” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Planning Period Balance: 
 
“Planning Period Balance” shall mean the entire period of time remaining in the Planning Period 
following the month that a monthly auction is conducted. 
 
Planning Period Quarter: 
 
“Planning Period Quarter” shall mean any of the following three month periods in the Planning 
Period:  June, July and August; September, October and November; December, January and 
February; or March, April and May. 
 
Point-to-Point Transmission Service: 
 
“Point-to-Point Transmission Service” shall mean the reservation and transmission of capacity 
and energy on either a firm or non-firm basis from the Point(s) of Delivery under Tariff, Part II. 
 
PRD Curve: 
 
“PRD Curve” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
PRD Provider: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions O - P 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 6 
“PRD Provider” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
PRD Reservation Price: 
 
 “PRD Reservation Price” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
PRD Substation:   
 
“PRD Substation” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Pre-Emergency Load Response Program: 
 
“Pre-Emergency Load Response Program” shall be the program by which Curtailment Service 
Providers may be compensated by PJM for Demand Resources that will reduce load when 
dispatched by PJM during pre-emergency conditions, and is described in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 8 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-appendix, section 8.  
 
President: 
 
“President” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, section 9.2. 
 
Price Responsive Demand: 
 
“Price Responsive Demand” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Primary Reserve: 
 
“Primary Reserve” shall mean the total reserve capability of generation resources that can be 
converted fully into energy or Economic Load Response Participant resources whose demand 
can be reduced within ten minutes of a request from the Office of the Interconnection dispatcher, 
and is comprised of both Synchronized Reserve and Non-Synchronized Reserve. 
 
Primary Reserve Alert: 
 
“Primary Reserve Alert” shall mean a notification from PJM to alert Members of an anticipated 
shortage of Operating Reserve capacity for a future critical period. 
 
Primary Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Primary Reserve Requirement” shall mean the megawatts required to be maintained in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone as Primary Reserve absent any increase to account for 
additional reserves scheduled to address operational uncertainty.  The Primary Reserve 
Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The requirement can be 
satisfied by any combination of Synchronized Reserve or Non-Synchronized Reserve resources. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions O - P 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 7 
 
Prohibited Securities: 
 
“Prohibited Securities” shall mean the Securities of a Member, Eligible Customer, or 
Nonincumbent Developer, or their Affiliates, if: 
 
(1) the primary business purpose of the Member or Eligible Customer, or their Affiliates, is to 
buy, sell or schedule energy, power, capacity, ancillary services or transmission services as 
indicated by an industry code within the “Electric Power Generation, Transmission, and 
Distribution” industry group under the North American Industry Classification System 
(“NAICS”) or otherwise determined by the Office of the Interconnection; 
  
(2) the Nonincumbent Developer has been pre-qualified as eligible to be a Designated Entity 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6; 
 
(3) the total (gross) financial settlements regarding the use of transmission capacity of the 
Transmission System and/or transactions in the centralized markets that the Office of the 
Interconnection administers under the Tariff and the Operating Agreement for all Members or 
Eligible Customers affiliated with the publicly traded company during its most recently 
completed fiscal year is equal to or greater than 0.5% of its gross revenues for the same time 
period; or 
 
(4) the total (gross) financial settlements regarding the use of transmission capacity of the 
Transmission System and/or transactions in the centralized markets that the Office of the 
Interconnection administers under the Tariff and the Operating Agreement for all Members or 
Eligible Customers affiliated with the publicly traded company during the prior calendar year is 
equal to or greater than 3% of the total transactions for which PJMSettlement is a Counterparty 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, section 3.3 for the same time period. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall compile and maintain a list of the Prohibited Securities 
publicly traded and post this list for all employees and distribute the list to the Board Members. 
 
Proportional Multi-Driver Project: 
 
“Proportional Multi-Driver Project” shall mean a Multi-Driver Project that is planned as 
described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.10(h). 
 
Pseudo-Tie: 
 
“Pseudo-Tie shall have the same meaning set forth in the NERC Glossary of Terms Used in 
NERC Reliability Standards. 
 
Public Policy Objectives: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions O - P 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 8 
“Public Policy Objectives” shall refer to Public Policy Requirements, as well as public policy 
initiatives of state or federal entities that have not been codified into law or regulation but which 
nonetheless may have important impacts on long term planning considerations. 
 
Public Policy Requirements: 
 
“Public Policy Requirements” shall refer to policies pursued by:  (a) state or federal entities, 
where such policies are reflected in duly enacted statutes or regulations, including but not limited 
to, state renewable portfolio standards and requirements under Environmental Protection Agency 
regulations; and (b) local governmental entities such as a municipal or county government, 
where such policies are reflected in duly enacted laws or regulations passed by the local 
governmental entity. 
 

