Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions S – T 
Effective Date: 2/21/2026 - Docket #: ER26-852-000 - Page 1 
Definitions S – T 
 
 
Sector Votes: 
 
“Sector Votes” shall mean the affirmative and negative votes of each sector of a Senior Standing 
Committee, as specified in Operating Agreement, section 8.4. 
 
Securities: 
 
“Securities” shall mean negotiable or non-negotiable investment or financing instruments that can 
be sold and bought.  Securities include bonds, stocks, debentures, notes and options. 
 
Segment:  
“Segment” shall have the same meaning as described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
3.2.3(e)and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2.3(e). 
 
Senior Standing Committees: 
 
“Senior Standing Committees” shall mean the Members Committee, and the Markets and 
Reliability Committee, as established in Operating Agreement, section 8.1 and Operating 
Agreement, section 8.6.  
 
SERC: 
 
“SERC” or “Southeastern Electric Reliability Council” shall mean the reliability council under 
section 202 of the Federal Power Act established pursuant to the SERC Agreement dated January 
14, 1970, or any successor thereto. 
 
Short-term Project: 
 
“Short-term Project” shall mean a transmission enhancement or expansion with an in-service date 
of more than three years but no more than five years from the year in which, pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.8(c), the Office of the Interconnection posts the violations, 
system conditions, or Public Policy Requirements to be addressed by the enhancement or 
expansion.  
 
Special Member: 
 
“Special Member” shall mean an entity that satisfies the requirements of  Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 1.5A.02, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 1.5A.02, or the special membership provisions established under the Emergency Load 
Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Programs. 
 
Spot Market Backup: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions S – T 
Effective Date: 2/21/2026 - Docket #: ER26-852-000 - Page 2 
“Spot Market Backup” shall mean the purchase of energy from, or the delivery of energy to, the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market in quantities sufficient to complete the delivery or receipt 
obligations of a bilateral contract that has been curtailed or interrupted for any reason. 
 
Spot Market Energy: 
 
“Spot Market Energy” shall mean energy bought or sold by Market Participants through the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market at System Energy Prices determined as specified in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 2. 
 
Standing Committees: 
 
“Standing Committees” shall mean the Members Committee, the committees established and 
maintained under Operating Agreement, section 8.6, and such other committees as the Members 
Committee may establish and maintain from time to time. 
 
Start Fuel: 
 
For units without a soak process, “Start Fuel” shall consist of fuel consumed from first fire of the 
start process to first breaker closing, plus any fuel expended from last breaker opening to 
shutdown. 
 
For units with a soak process, “Start Fuel” is fuel consumed from first fire of the start process 
(initial reactor criticality for nuclear units) to dispatchable output (including auxiliary boiler 
fuel), plus any fuel expended from last breaker opening to shutdown, excluding normal plant 
heating/auxiliary equipment fuel requirements.  Start Fuel included for each temperature state 
from breaker closure to dispatchable output shall not exceed the unit specific soak time period 
reviewed and approved as part of the unit-specific parameter process detailed in Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.6(c) or the defaults below: 
• Cold Soak Time = 0.73 * unit specific Minimum Run Time (in hours) 
• Intermediate Soak Time = 0.61 * unit specific Minimum Run Time (in hours) 
• Hot Soak Time = 0.43 * unit specific Minimum Run Time (in hours)   
 
 
Start-Up Costs: 
 
“Start-Up Costs” shall consist primarily of the cost of fuel, as determined by the unit’s start heat 
input (adjusted by the performance factor) times the fuel cost.  It also includes operating costs, 
Maintenance Adders, emissions allowances/adders, and station service cost.  Start-Up Costs can 
vary with the unit offline time being categorized in three unit temperature conditions: hot, 
intermediate and cold. 
 
For units with a steam turbine and a soak process (nuclear, steam, and combined cycle), “Start 
Fuel” is fuel consumed from first fire of start process (initial reactor criticality for nuclear units): 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions S – T 
Effective Date: 2/21/2026 - Docket #: ER26-852-000 - Page 3 
Start-Up Costs shall mean the net unit costs from PJM’s notification to the level at which the unit 
can follow PJM’s dispatch, and from last breaker open to shutdown. 
 
For units without a steam turbine and no soak process (engines, combustion turbines, 
Intermittent Resources, and Energy Storage Resources): Start-Up Costs shall mean the unit costs 
from PJM’s notification to first breaker close and from last breaker open to shutdown. 
State: 
 
“State” shall mean the District of Columbia and any State or Commonwealth of the United States. 
 
State Certification: 
 
“State Certification” shall mean the Certification of an Authorized Commission, pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, section 18, the form of which is appended to the Operating Agreement as 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 10A, wherein the Authorized Commission identifies all 
Authorized Persons employed or retained by such Authorized Commission, a copy of which shall 
be filed with FERC. 
 
State Consumer Advocate: 
 
“State Consumer Advocate” shall mean a legislatively created office from any State, all or any 
part of the territory of which is within the PJM Region, and the District of Columbia established, 
inter alia, for the purpose of representing the interests of energy consumers before the utility 
regulatory commissions of such states and the District of Columbia and the FERC. 
 
State Estimator: 
 
“State Estimator” shall mean the computer model of power flows specified in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.11A, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.11A. 
 
State of Charge: 
 
“State of Charge” shall mean the quantity of physical energy stored in an Energy Storage 
Resource Model Participant or in a storage component of a Hybrid Resource in proportion to its 
maximum State of Charge capability. State of Charge is quantified as defined in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
State of Charge Management: 
 
“State of Charge Management” shall mean the control of State of Charge of an Energy Storage 
Resource Market Participant or a storage component of a Hybrid Resource using minimum and 
maximum discharge (and, as applicable, charge) limits, changes in operating mode (as 
applicable), discharging (and, as applicable, charging) offer curves, and self-scheduling of non-

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions S – T 
Effective Date: 2/21/2026 - Docket #: ER26-852-000 - Page 4 
dispatchable sales (and, as applicable, purchases) of energy in the PJM markets.  State of Charge 
Management shall not interfere with the obligation of a Market Seller of an Energy Storage 
Resource Model Participant or of a Hybrid Resource to follow PJM dispatch, consistent with all 
other resources. 
 
Station Power: 
 
“Station Power” shall mean energy used for operating the electric equipment on the site of a 
generation facility located in the PJM Region or for the heating, lighting, air-conditioning and 
office equipment needs of buildings on the site of such a generation facility that are used in the 
operation, maintenance, or repair of the facility.  Station Power does not include any energy (i) 
used to power synchronous condensers; (ii) used for pumping at a pumped storage facility; (iii) 
used in association with restoration or black start service; or (iv) that is Direct Charging Energy. 
  
Sub-meter: 
 
“Sub-meter” shall mean a metering point for electricity consumption that does not include all 
electricity consumption for the end-use customer as defined by the electric distribution company 
account number.  PJM shall only accept sub-meter load data from end-use customers for 
measurement and verification of Regulation service as set forth in the Economic Load Response 
rules and PJM Manuals. 
 
Subregional RTEP Project: 
 
“Subregional RTEP Project” shall mean a transmission expansion or enhancement rated below 
230 kV which is required for compliance with the following PJM criteria:  system reliability, 
operational performance or economic criteria, pursuant to a determination by the Office of the 
Interconnection. 
 
Supplemental Project: 
 
“Supplemental Project” shall mean a transmission expansion or enhancement that is not required 
for compliance with the following PJM criteria:  system reliability, operational performance or 
economic criteria, pursuant to a determination by the Office of the Interconnection and is not a 
state public policy project pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.9(a)(ii).  Any 
system upgrades required to maintain the reliability of the system that are driven by a Supplemental 
Project are considered part of that Supplemental Project and are the responsibility of the entity 
sponsoring that Supplemental Project. 
 
Synchronized Reserve: 
 
“Synchronized Reserve” shall mean the reserve capability of generation resources that can be 
converted fully into energy or Economic Load Response Participant resources whose demand 
can be reduced within ten minutes from the request of the Office of the Interconnection 
dispatcher, and is provided by equipment that is electrically synchronized to the Transmission 
System. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions S – T 
Effective Date: 2/21/2026 - Docket #: ER26-852-000 - Page 5 
 
Synchronized Reserve Event: 
 
“Synchronized Reserve Event” shall mean a request from the Office of the Interconnection to 
generation resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources able, assigned or 
self-scheduled to provide Synchronized Reserve in one or more specified Reserve Zones or 
Reserve Sub-zones, within ten minutes, to increase the energy output or reduce load by a 
directed amount of the assigned or self-scheduled Synchronized Reserve. 
 
Synchronized Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Synchronized Reserve Requirement” shall mean the megawatts required to be maintained in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone as Synchronized Reserve, absent any increase to account for 
additional reserves scheduled to address operational uncertainty.  The Synchronized Reserve 
Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  This requirement can only be 
satisfied by Synchronized Reserve resources. 
 
System: 
 
“System” shall mean the interconnected electric supply system of a Member and its interconnected 
subsidiaries exclusive of facilities which it may own or control outside of the PJM Region.  Each 
Member may include in its system the electric supply systems of any party or parties other than 
Members which are within the PJM Region, provided its interconnection agreements with such 
other party or parties do not conflict with such inclusion. 
 
System Energy Price: 
 
“System Energy Price” shall mean the energy component of the Locational Marginal Price, 
which is the price at which the Market Seller has offered to supply an additional increment of 
energy from a resource, calculated as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2, 
and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2. 
 
Target Allocation: 
 
“Target Allocation” shall mean the allocation of Transmission Congestion Credits as set forth in 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.3, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.2.3 or the allocation of Auction Revenue Rights Credits as set 
forth in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.3, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4.3. 
 
Third Party Request: 
 
“Third Party Request” shall mean any request or demand by any entity upon an Authorized Person 
or an Authorized Commission for release or disclosure of confidential information provided to the 
Authorized Person or Authorized Commission by the Office of the Interconnection or the Market 
Monitoring Unit.  A Third Party Request shall include, but shall not be limited to, any subpoena, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions S – T 
Effective Date: 2/21/2026 - Docket #: ER26-852-000 - Page 6 
discovery request, or other request for confidential information made by any: (i) federal, state, or 
local governmental subdivision, department, official, agency or court, or (ii) arbitration panel, 
business, company, entity or individual. 
 
Tie Line: 
 
“Tie Line” shall have the same meaning provided in the Open Access Transmission Tariff. 
 
Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer:   
 
“Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer” shall mean the applicable offer used to calculate lost 
opportunity cost credits.  For pool-scheduled resources specified in PJM Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 3.2.3(f-1) and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 3.2.3(f-1), the Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer shall equal the Real-time Settlement 
Interval offer integrated under the applicable offer curve for the LOC Deviation, as determined 
by the greater of the Committed Offer or last Real-Time Offer submitted for the offer on which 
the resource was committed in the Day-ahead Energy Market for each hour in an Operating 
Day.  For all other pool-scheduled resources, the Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer shall equal 
the Real-time Settlement Interval offer integrated under the applicable offer curve for the LOC 
Deviation, as determined by the offer curve associated with the greater of the Committed Offer 
or Final Offer for each hour in an Operating Day.   For self-scheduled generation resources, the 
Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer shall equal the Real-time Settlement Interval offer integrated 
under the applicable offer curve for the LOC Deviation,  where for self-scheduled generation 
resources (a) operating pursuant to a cost-based offer, the applicable offer curve shall be the 
greater of the originally submitted cost-based offer or the cost-based offer that the resource was 
dispatched on in real-time; or (b) operating pursuant to a market-based offer, the applicable offer 
curve shall be determined in accordance with the following process: (1) select the greater of the 
cost-based day-ahead offer and updated costbased Real-time Offer; (2) for resources with 
multiple cost-based offers, first, for each cost-based offer select the greater of the day-ahead 
offer and updated Real-time Offer, and then select the lesser of the resulting cost-based offers; 
and (3) compare the offer selected in (1), or for resources with multiple cost-based offers the 
offer selected in (2), with the market-based day-ahead offer and the market-based Real-time 
Offer and select the highest offer. 
 
Tracking Ramp Limited Desired 
 
“Tracking Ramp Limited Desired” shall mean the desired MW or MWh calculated pursuant to 
Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2.3(e-1) and parallel provisions in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.2.3(e-1). 
 
Transmission Congestion Charge: 
 
“Transmission Congestion Charge” shall mean a charge attributable to the increased cost of 
energy delivered at a given load bus when the transmission system serving that load bus is 
operating under constrained conditions, or as necessary to provide energy for third-party 
transmission losses, which shall be calculated and allocated as specified in Operating Agreement, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions S – T 
Effective Date: 2/21/2026 - Docket #: ER26-852-000 - Page 7 
Schedule 1, section 5.1, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
5.1. 
 
Transmission Congestion Credit: 
 
“Transmission Congestion Credit” shall mean the allocated share of total Transmission 
Congestion Charges credited to each FTR Holder, calculated and allocated as specified in 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 5.2. 
 
Transmission Customer: 
 
“Transmission Customer” shall have the meaning set forth in the PJM Tariff. 
 
Transmission Facilities: 
 
“Transmission Facilities” shall mean facilities that:  (i) are within the PJM Region; (ii) meet the 
definition of transmission facilities pursuant to FERC’s Uniform System of Accounts or have been 
classified as transmission facilities in a ruling by FERC addressing such facilities; and (iii) have 
been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Office of the Interconnection to be integrated with the 
PJM Region transmission system and integrated into the planning and operation of the PJM Region 
to serve all of the power and transmission customers within the PJM Region. 
 
Transmission Forced Outage: 
 
“Transmission Forced Outage” shall mean an immediate removal from service of a transmission 
facility by reason of an Emergency or threatened Emergency, unanticipated failure, or other 
cause beyond the control of the owner or operator of the transmission facility, as specified in the 
relevant portions of the PJM Manuals.  A removal from service of a transmission facility at the 
request of the Office of the Interconnection to improve transmission capability shall not 
constitute a Forced Transmission Outage. 
 
Transmission Loading Relief: 
 
“Transmission Loading Relief” shall mean NERC’s procedures for preventing operating security 
limit violations, as implemented by PJM as the security coordinator responsible for maintaining 
transmission security for the PJM Region. 
 
Transmission Loss Charge: 
 
“Transmission Loss Charge” shall mean the charges to each Market Participant, Network 
Customer, or Transmission Customer for the cost of energy lost in the transmission of electricity 
from a generation resource to load as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5, 
and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 5. 
 
Transmission Operator: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions S – T 
Effective Date: 2/21/2026 - Docket #: ER26-852-000 - Page 8 
 
“Transmission Operator” shall have the same meaning set forth in the NERC Glossary of Terms 
used in NERC Reliability Standards. 
 
Transmission Owner: 
 
“Transmission Owner” shall mean a Member that owns or leases with rights equivalent to 
ownership Transmission Facilities and is a signatory to the PJM Transmission Owners Agreement.  
Taking transmission service shall not be sufficient to qualify a Member as a Transmission Owner. 
 
Transmission Owner Upgrade: 
 
“Transmission Owner Upgrade” shall mean an upgrade to a Transmission Owner’s own 
transmission facilities, which is an improvement to, addition to, or replacement of a part of, an 
existing facility and is not an entirely new transmission facility. 
 
Transmission Planned Outage: 
 
“Transmission Planned Outage” shall mean any transmission outage scheduled in advance for a 
pre-determined duration and which meets the notification requirements for such outages 
specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, or the PJM Manuals. 
 
Turn Down Ratio: 
 
“Turn Down Ratio” shall mean the ratio of a generating unit’s economic maximum megawatts to 
its economic minimum megawatts. 
 

