Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions U - Z 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 1 
Definitions U - Z 
 
Up-to Congestion Transaction: 
 
“Up-to Congestion Transaction” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 1.10.1A, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 1.10.1A. 
 
User Group: 
 
“User Group” shall mean a group formed pursuant to Operating Agreement, section 8.7. 
 
VACAR:   
 
“VACAR” shall mean the group of five companies, consisting of Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC; 
Duke Energy Progress, Inc.; South Carolina Public Service Authority; South Carolina Electric 
and Gas Company; and Virginia Electric and Power Company. 
 
Variable Loads: 
“Variable Loads” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
1.5A.6, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.5A.6. 
 
Virtual Transaction: 
 
“Virtual Transaction” shall mean a Decrement Bid, Increment Offer and/or Up-to Congestion 
Transaction. 
 
Voting Member: 
 
“Voting Member” shall mean (i) a Member as to which no other Member is an Affiliate or 
Related Party, or (ii) a Member together with any other Members as to which it is an Affiliate or 
Related Party. 
 
Weighted Interest: 
 
“Weighted Interest” shall be equal to (0.1(1/N) + 0.5(B/C) + 0.2(D/E) + 0.2(F/G)), where: 
 
N = the total number of Members excluding ex officio Members and State Consumer 
Advocates (which, for purposes of Operating Agreement, section 15.2 shall be 
calculated as of five o’clock p.m. Eastern Time on the date PJM declares a 
Member in default) 
 
B = the Member's internal peak demand for the previous calendar year (which, for 
Load Serving Entities under the Reliability Assurance Agreement, shall be that 
used to calculate Accounted For Obligation as determined by the Office of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions U - Z 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 2 
Interconnection pursuant to RAA, Schedule 7averaged over the previous calendar 
year) 
 
C = the sum of factor B for all Members 
 
D = the Member's generating capability from Generation Capacity Resources located 
in the PJM Region as of January 1 of the current calendar year, determined by the 
Office of the Interconnection pursuant to RAA, Schedule 9 
 
E = the sum of factor D for all Members 
 
F = the sum of the Member's circuit miles of transmission facilities multiplied by the 
respective operating voltage for facilities 100 kV and above as of January 1 of the 
current calendar year 
 
G = the sum of factor F for all Members 
 
Zone or Zonal: 
 
“Zone” or “Zonal” shall mean an area within the PJM Region, as set forth in Tariff, Attachment J 
and RAA, Schedule 15, or as such areas may be (i) combined as a result of mergers or acquisitions or (ii) 
added as a result of the expansion of the boundaries of the PJM Region.  A Zone shall include any Non-
Zone Network Load located outside the PJM Region that is served from such Zone under Tariff, 
Attachment H-A. 
 
 
 

