Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions A - B 
Effective Date: 10/1/2022 - Docket #: EL19-58-014 - Page 1 
Definitions A - B 
 
30-minute Reserve:  
 
“30-minute Reserve” shall mean the reserve capability of generation resources that can be 
converted fully into energy or Economic Load Response Participant resources whose demand 
can be reduced within 30 minutes of a request from the Office of the Interconnection dispatcher, 
and is comprised of Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve and Secondary Reserve.  
 
30-minute Reserve Requirement:  
 
“30-minute Reserve Requirement” shall mean the megawatts required to be maintained in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone, as Secondary Reserve, absent any increase to account for 
additional reserves scheduled to address operational uncertainty.  The 30-minute Reserve 
Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The requirement can be 
satisfied by any combination of Synchronized Reserve, Non Synchronized Reserve or Secondary 
Reserve resources. 
 
Acceleration Request: 
 
“Acceleration Request” shall mean a request pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 1.9.4A  and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, to accelerate or 
reschedule a transmission outage scheduled pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 1.9.2 or Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.9.4 and the parallel provisions of 
Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.9.2 and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.9.4. 
 
Act: 
 
“Act” shall mean the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, Title 6, §§ 18-101 to 18-1109 of 
the Delaware Code. 
 
Active and Significant Business Interest: 
 
“Active and Significant Business Interest” is a term that shall be used to assess the scope of a 
Member’s PJM membership and shall be based on a Member’s activity in the PJM RTO and/or 
Interchange Energy Markets.  A Member’s Active and Significant Business Interest shall:  1) be 
determined relative to the scope of the Member’s PJM membership and activity in the PJM RTO 
and/or Interchange Energy Markets considering, among other things, the Member’s public 
statements and/or regulatory filings regarding its PJM activities; and 2) reflect a substantial 
contributor to the Member’s recent market activity, revenues, costs, investment, and/or earnings 
when considering the Member and its corporate affiliates’ interests within the PJM footprint. 
 
Affected Member: 
 
“Affected Member” shall mean a Member of PJM which as a result of its participation in PJM’s 
markets or its membership in PJM provided confidential information to PJM, which confidential 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions A - B 
Effective Date: 10/1/2022 - Docket #: EL19-58-014 - Page 2 
information is requested by, or is disclosed to an Authorized Person under a Non-Disclosure 
Agreement. 
 
Affiliate: 
 
“Affiliate” shall mean any two or more entities, one of which Controls the other or that are under 
common Control.  “Control,” as that term is used in this definition, shall mean the possession, 
directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or policies of an entity.  Ownership 
of publicly-traded equity securities of another entity shall not result in Control or affiliation for 
purposes of the Tariff or Operating Agreement if the securities are held as an investment, the 
holder owns (in its name or via intermediaries) less than 10 percent (10%) of the outstanding 
securities of the entity, the holder does not have representation on the entity's board of directors 
(or equivalent managing entity) or vice versa, and the holder does not in fact exercise influence 
over day-to-day management decisions. Unless the contrary is demonstrated to the satisfaction of 
the Members Committee, Control shall be presumed to arise from the ownership of or the power 
to vote, directly or indirectly, ten percent or more of the voting securities of such entity. 
 
Agreement, Operating Agreement of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Operating 
Agreement or PJM Operating Agreement: 
 
“Agreement,” “Operating Agreement of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.,” “Operating 
Agreement” or “PJM Operating Agreement” shall mean this Amended and Restated Operating 
Agreement of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. dated as of April 1, 1997 and as amended and 
restated as of June 2, 1997, including all Schedules, Exhibits, Appendices, addenda or 
supplements thereto, as amended from time to time thereafter, among the Members of PJM 
Interconnection L.L.C., on file with the Commission. 
 
Annual Meeting of the Members: 
 
“Annual Meeting of the Members” shall mean the meeting specified in Operating Agreement, 
section 8.3.1. 
 
Applicable Regional Entity: 
 
“Applicable Regional Entity” shall mean the Regional Entity for the region in which a Network 
Customer, Transmission Customer, New Service Customer, or Transmission Owner operates. 
 
Applicable Standards: 
 
“Applicable Standards” shall mean the requirements and guidelines of NERC, the Applicable 
Regional Entity, and the Control Area in which the Customer Facility is electrically located; the 
PJM Manuals; and Applicable Technical Requirements and Standards.  
 
Associate Member: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions A - B 
Effective Date: 10/1/2022 - Docket #: EL19-58-014 - Page 3 
“Associate Member” shall mean an entity that satifies the requirements of Operating Agreement, 
section 11.7. 
 
Auction Revenue Rights: 
 
“Auction Revenue Rights” or “ARRs” shall mean the right to receive the revenue from the 
Financial Transmission Right auction, as further described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 7.4 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4. 
 
Auction Revenue Rights Credits: 
 
“Auction Revenue Rights Credits” shall mean the allocated share of total FTR auction revenues 
or costs credited to each holder of Auction Revenue Rights, calculated and allocated as specified 
in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.3, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4.3. 
 
Authorized Commission: 
 
“Authorized Commission” shall mean (i) a State public utility commission that regulates the 
distribution or supply of electricity to retail customers and is legally charged with monitoring the 
operation of wholesale or retail markets serving retail suppliers or customers within its State or 
(ii) an association or organization comprised exclusively of State public utility commissions 
described in the immediately preceding clause (i). 
 
Authorized Person: 
 
“Authorized Person” shall have the meaning set forth in Operating Agreement, section 18.17.4. 
 
Balancing Congestion Charges: 
 
“Balancing Congestion Charges” shall be equal to the sum of congestion charges collected from 
Market Participants that are purchasing energy in the Real-time Energy Market minus [the sum 
of congestion charges paid to Market Participants that are selling energy in the Real-time Energy 
Market plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to the Joint Operating Agreement 
between the Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. and PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 38), plus any congestion charges 
calculated pursuant to the Joint Operating Agreement Among and Between New York 
Independent System Operator Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC 
No. 45), plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to agreements between the Office of 
the Interconnection and other entities, plus any charges or credits calculated pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.8, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 3.8, as applicable)]. 
 
Batch Load Economic Load Response Participant Resource: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions A - B 
Effective Date: 10/1/2022 - Docket #: EL19-58-014 - Page 4 
“Batch Load Economic Load Response Participant Resource” shall mean an Economic Load 
Response Participant Resource that has a cyclical production process such that at most times 
during the process it is consuming energy, but at consistent regular intervals, ordinarily for 
periods of less than ten minutes, it reduces its consumption of energy for its production processes 
to minimal or zero megawatts. 
 
Behind The Meter Generation: 
 
“Behind The Meter Generation” shall refer to a generating unit that delivers energy to load 
without using the Transmission System or any distribution facilities (unless the entity that owns 
or leases the distribution facilities has consented to such use of the distribution facilities and such 
consent has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Office of the Interconnection); provided, 
however, that Behind The Meter Generation does not include (i) at any time, any portion of such 
generating unit’s capacity that is designated as a Generation Capacity Resource, or (ii) in any 
hour, any portion of the output of such generating unit that is sold to another entity for 
consumption at another electrical location or into the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Board Member: 
 
“Board Member” shall mean a member of the PJM Board. 
 

