Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions M - N 
Effective Date: 3/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1743-000 - Page 1 
Definitions M - N 
 
M2M Flowgate: 
 
“M2M Flowgate” shall have the meaning provided in the Joint Operating Agreement between 
the Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. and PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. 
 
Maintenance Adder:   
 
“Maintenance Adder” shall mean an adder that may be included to account for variable operation 
and maintenance expenses in a Market Seller’s Fuel Cost Policy.  The Maintenance Adder is 
calculated in accordance with the applicable provisions of PJM Manual 15, and may only include 
expenses incurred as a result of electric production. 
 
Market Buyer:  
 
“Market Buyer” shall mean a Member that has met reasonable creditworthiness standards 
established by the Office of the Interconnection and/or PJMSettlement in Tariff, Attachment Q, 
and that is otherwise able to make purchases in the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Market Monitoring Unit or MMU: 
 
“Market Monitoring Unit” or “MMU” shall mean the independent Market Monitoring Unit 
defined in 18 CFR § 35.28(a)(7) and established under the PJM Market Monitoring Plan 
(Attachment M) to the PJM Tariff that is responsible for implementing the Market Monitoring 
Plan, including the Market Monitor.  The Market Monitoring Unit may also be referred to as the 
IMM or Independent Market Monitor for PJM. 
 
Market Operations Center: 
 
“Market Operations Center” shall mean the equipment, facilities and personnel used by or on 
behalf of a Market Participant to communicate and coordinate with the Office of the 
Interconnection in connection with transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market or the 
operation of the PJM Region. 
 
Market Participant: 
 
“Market Participant” shall mean a Market Buyer, a Market Seller, and/or an Economic Load 
Response Participant, except when that term is used in or pertaining to Tariff, Attachment M, 
Tariff, Attachment Q, Operating Agreement, section 15, Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
1.4 and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.4.  “Market Participant,” when such term is 
used in Tariff, Attachment M, shall mean an entity that generates, transmits, distributes, 
purchases, or sells electricity, ancillary services, or any other product or service provided under 
the PJM Tariff or Operating Agreement within, into, out of, or through the PJM Region, but it 
shall not include an Authorized Government Agency that consumes energy for its own use but 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions M - N 
Effective Date: 3/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1743-000 - Page 2 
does not purchase or sell energy at wholesale. “Market Participant,” when such term is used in or 
pertaining to Tariff, Attachment Q, Operating Agreement, section 15, Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.4 and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.4, shall mean a Market 
Buyer, a Market Seller, an Economic Load Response Participant, an FTR Participant, a Capacity 
Market Buyer, or a Capacity Market Seller. 
 
Market Participant Energy Injection: 
 
“Market Participant Energy Injection” shall mean transactions in the Day-ahead Energy Market 
and Real-time Energy Market, including but not limited to Day-ahead generation schedules, real-
time generation output, Increment Offers, internal bilateral transactions and import transactions, 
as further described in the PJM Manuals.  
 
Market Participant Energy Withdrawal: 
 
“Market Participant Energy Withdrawal” shall mean transactions in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market and Real-time Energy Market, including but not limited to Demand Bids, Decrement 
Bids, real-time load (net of Behind The Meter Generation expected to be operating, but not to be 
less than zero), internal bilateral transactions and Export Transactions, as further described in the 
PJM Manuals.  
 
Market Revenue Neutrality Offset:  
 
“Market Revenue Neutrality Offset” shall mean the revenue in excess of the cost for a resource 
from the energy, Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, and Secondary Reserve 
markets realized from an increase in real-time market megawatt assignment from a day-ahead 
market megawatt assignment in any of these markets due to the decrease in the real-time reserve 
market megawatt assignment from a day-ahead reserve market megawatt assignment in any of 
the reserve markets. 
 
Market Seller: 
 
“Market Seller” shall mean a Member that has met reasonable creditworthiness standards 
established by the Office of the Interconnection and/or PJMSettlement in Tariff, Attachment Q, 
and that is otherwise able to make sales in the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Market Suspension:  
 
“Market Suspension” shall mean the inability of the Office of the Interconnection to clear the 
Day-ahead Energy Market prior to 11:59 p.m. on the day before the affected Operating Day due 
to extraordinary circumstances, as further described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
1.10.8(d) and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.10.8(d), or the 
inability of the Office of the Interconnection to produce Zonal Dispatch Rates for a total of seven 
(7) or more Real-time Settlement Intervals within a clock hour, for the purposes of the Real-time 
Energy Market, as further described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.11.6 and the 
parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.11.6. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions M - N 
Effective Date: 3/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1743-000 - Page 3 
 
Maximum Emergency: 
 
“Maximum Emergency” shall mean the designation of all or part of the output of a generating 
unit for which the designated output levels may require extraordinary procedures and therefore 
are available to the Office of the Interconnection only when the Office of the Interconnection 
declares a Maximum Generation Emergency and requests generation designated as Maximum 
Emergency to run.  The Office of the Interconnection shall post on the PJM website the 
aggregate amount of megawatts that are classified as Maximum Emergency. 
 
Maximum Generation Emergency:  
 
“Maximum Generation Emergency” shall mean an Emergency declared by the Office of the 
Interconnection to address either a generation or transmission emergency in which the Office of 
the Interconnection anticipates requesting one or more Generation Capacity Resources, or Non-
Retail Behind The Meter Generation resources to operate at its maximum net or gross electrical 
power output, subject to the equipment stress limits for such Generation Capacity Resource or 
Non-Retail Behind The Meter resource in order to manage, alleviate, or end the Emergency. 
 
Maximum Daily Starts: 
 
“Maximum Daily Starts” shall mean the maximum number of times that a generating unit can be 
started in an Operating Day under normal operating conditions. 
 
Maximum Generation Emergency Alert:  
 
“Maximum Generation Emergency Alert” shall mean an alert issued by the Office of the 
Interconnection to notify PJM Members, Transmission Owners, resource owners and operators, 
customers, and regulators that a Maximum Generation Emergency may be declared, for any 
Operating Day in either, as applicable, the Day-ahead Energy Market or the Real-time Energy 
Market, for all or any part of such Operating Day. 
 
Maximum Run Time: 
 
“Maximum Run Time” shall mean the maximum number of hours a generating unit can run over 
the course of an Operating Day, as measured by PJM’s State Estimator. 
 
Maximum Weekly Starts: 
 
“Maximum Weekly Starts” shall mean the maximum number of times that a generating unit can 
be started in one week, defined as the 168 hour period starting Monday 0001 hour, under normal 
operating conditions. 
 
Member: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions M - N 
Effective Date: 3/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1743-000 - Page 4 
“Member” shall mean an entity that satisfies the requirements of Operating Agreement, section 
11.6 and that (i) is a member of the LLC immediately prior to the Effective Date, or (ii) has 
executed an Additional Member Agreement in the form set forth in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 4. 
 
Members Committee: 
 
“Members Committee” shall mean the committee specified in Operating Agreement, section 8, 
composed of representatives of all the Members. 
 
Minimum Generation Emergency:  
 
“Minimum Generation Emergency” shall mean an Emergency declared by the Office of the 
Interconnection in which the Office of the Interconnection anticipates requesting one or more 
generating resources to operate at or below Normal Minimum Generation, in order to manage, 
alleviate, or end the Emergency. 
 
Minimum Down Time: 
 
For all generating units that are not combined cycle units, “Minimum Down Time” shall mean 
the minimum number of hours under normal operating conditions between unit shutdown and 
unit startup, calculated as the shortest time difference between the unit’s generator breaker 
opening and after the unit’s generator breaker closure, which is typically indicated by 
telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero. For combined cycle 
units, “Minimum Down Time” shall mean the minimum number of hours between the last 
generator breaker opening and after first combustion turbine generator breaker closure, which is 
typically indicated by telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero. 
 
Minimum Run Time: 
 
For all generating units that are not combined cycle units, “Minimum Run Time” shall mean the 
minimum number of hours a unit must run, in real-time operations, from the time after generator 
breaker closure, which is typically indicated by telemetered or aggregated State Estimator 
megawatts greater than zero, to the time of generator breaker opening, as measured by PJM's 
State Estimator. For combined cycle units, “Minimum Run Time” shall mean the time period 
after the first combustion turbine generator breaker closure, which is typically indicated by 
telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero, and the last generator 
breaker opening as measured by PJM’s State Estimator. 
 
MISO: 
 
“MISO” shall mean the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. or any successor 
thereto. 
 
Mixed Technology Facility: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions M - N 
Effective Date: 3/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1743-000 - Page 5 
“Mixed Technology Facility” shall mean a facility composed of distinct generation and/or 
electric storage technology types behind the same Point of Interconnection.  Co-Located 
Resources and Hybrid Resources form all or part of Mixed Technology Facilities. 
 
Multi-Driver Project: 
 
“Multi-Driver Project” shall mean a transmission enhancement or expansion that addresses more 
than one of the following:  reliability violations, economic constraints or State Agreement 
Approach initiatives. 
 
NERC: 
 
“NERC” shall mean the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, or any successor 
thereto. 
 
NERC Functional Model: 
 
“NERC Functional Model” shall be the set of functions that must be performed to ensure the 
reliability of the electric bulk power system.  The NERC Reliability Standards establish the 
requirements of the responsible entities that perform the functions defined in the Functional 
Model.   
 
NERC Interchange Distribution Calculator: 
 
“NERC Interchange Distribution Calculator” shall mean the NERC mechanism that is in effect 
and being used to calculate the distribution of energy, over specific transmission interfaces, from 
energy transactions. 
 
NERC Reliability Standards: 
 
“NERC Reliability Standards” shall mean those standards that have been developed by NERC 
and approved by FERC to ensure the reliability of the electric bulk power system. 
 
NERC Rules of Procedure:  
 
“NERC Rules of Procedure” shall be the rules and procedures developed by NERC and approved 
by the FERC.  These rules include the process by which a responsible entity, who is to perform a 
set of functions to ensure the reliability of the electric bulk power system, must register as the 
Registered Entity. 
 
Net Benefits Test: 
 
“Net Benefits Test” shall mean a calculation to determine whether the benefits of a reduction in 
price resulting from the dispatch of Economic Load Response exceeds the cost to other loads 
resulting from the billing unit effects of the load reduction, as specified in Operating Agreement, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions M - N 
Effective Date: 3/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1743-000 - Page 6 
Schedule 1, section 3.3A.4 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
3.3A.4.  
 
Network Resource: 
 
“Network Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the PJM Tariff. 
 
Network Service User: 
 
“Network Service User” shall mean an entity using Network Transmission Service. 
 
Network Transmission Service:  
 
“Network Transmission Service” shall mean transmission service provided pursuant to the rates, 
terms and conditions set forth in Tariff, Part III, or transmission service comparable to such 
service that is provided to a Load Serving Entity that is also a Transmission Owner. 
 
New York ISO or NYISO: 
 
“New York ISO” or “NYISO” shall mean the New York Independent System Operator, Inc. or 
any successor thereto. 
 
No-load Cost:  
 
“No-load Cost” shall mean the hourly cost required to theoretically operate a synchronized unit 
at zero MW. It consists primarily of the cost of fuel, as determined by the unit’s no load heat 
(adjusted by the performance factor) times the fuel cost. It also includes operating costs, 
Maintenance Adders, and emissions allowances. 
 
Non-Disclosure Agreement: 
 
“Non-Disclosure Agreement” shall mean an agreement between an Authorized Person and the 
Office of the Interconnection, pursuant to Operating Agreement, section, the form of which is 
appended to this Agreement as Operating Agreement, Schedule 10, wherein the Authorized 
Person is given access to otherwise restricted confidential information, for the benefit of their 
respective Authorized Commission. 
 
Non-Dispatched Charging Energy:  
 
“Non-Dispatched Charging Energy” shall mean all Direct Charging Energy that an Energy 
Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource receives from the electric 
grid that is not otherwise Dispatched Charging Energy. 
 
Nonincumbent Developer: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions M - N 
Effective Date: 3/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1743-000 - Page 7 
“Nonincumbent Developer” shall mean:  (1) a transmission developer that does not have an 
existing Zone in the PJM Region as set forth in Tariff, Attachment J; or (2) a Transmission 
Owner that proposes a transmission project outside of its existing Zone in the PJM Region as set 
forth in Tariff, Attachment J. 
 
Non-Regulatory Opportunity Cost: 
 
 “Non-Regulatory Opportunity Cost” shall mean the difference between (a) the forecasted cost to 
operate a specific generating unit when the unit only has a limited number of starts or available 
run hours resulting from (i) the physical equipment limitations of the unit, for up to one year, due 
to original equipment manufacturer recommendations or insurance carrier restrictions, (ii) a fuel 
supply limitation, for up to one year, resulting from an event of Catastrophic Force Majeure; and,  
(b) the forecasted future Locational Marginal Price at which the generating unit could run while 
not violating such limitations.  Non-Regulatory Opportunity Cost therefore is the value 
associated with a specific generating unit’s lost opportunity to produce energy during a higher 
valued period of time occurring within the same period of time in which the unit is bound by the 
referenced restrictions, and is reflected in the rules set forth in PJM Manual 15.  Non-Regulatory 
Opportunity Costs shall be limited to those resources which are specifically delineated in 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 2.  
 
Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation: 
 
“Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation” shall mean Behind the Meter Generation that is used 
by municipal electric systems, electric cooperatives, and electric distribution companies to serve 
load.  
 
Non-Synchronized Reserve: 
 
“Non-Synchronized Reserve” shall mean the reserve capability of non-emergency generation 
resources that can be converted fully into energy within ten minutes of a request from the Office of 
the Interconnection dispatcher, and is provided by equipment that is not electrically synchronized to 
the Transmission System. 
 
Non-Synchronized Reserve Event: 
 
“Non-Synchronized Reserve Event” shall mean a request from the Office of the Interconnection to 
generation resources able and assigned to provide Non-Synchronized Reserve in one or more 
specified Reserve Zones or Reserve Sub-zones, within ten minutes to increase the energy output by 
the amount of assigned Non-Synchronized Reserve capability. 
 
Non-Variable Loads: 
 
“Non-Variable Loads” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 1.5A.6, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 1.5A.6. 
 
Normal Maximum Generation: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions M - N 
Effective Date: 3/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1743-000 - Page 8 
 
“Normal Maximum Generation” shall mean the highest output level of a generating resource 
under normal operating conditions. 
 
Normal Minimum Generation: 
 
“Normal Minimum Generation” shall mean the lowest output level of a generating resource 
under normal operating conditions. 
 
 
 

