Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions E - F 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 1 
Definitions E - F 
 
Economic-based Enhancement or Expansion: 
 
“Economic-based Enhancement or Expansion” shall mean an enhancement or expansion 
described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.7(b) (i) – (iii) that is designed to 
relieve transmission constraints that have an economic impact. 
 
Economic Load Response Participant: 
 
“Economic Load Response Participant” shall mean a Member or Special Member that qualifies 
under Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.5A, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.5A to participate in the PJM Interchange Energy Market 
and/or Ancillary Services markets through reductions in demand. 
 
Economic Maximum: 
 
“Economic Maximum” shall mean the highest incremental MW output level, submitted to PJM 
market systems by a Market Participant, that a unit can achieve while following economic 
dispatch. 
 
Economic Minimum: 
 
“Economic Minimum” shall mean the lowest incremental MW output level, submitted to PJM 
market systems by a Market Participant, that a unit can achieve while following economic 
dispatch. 
 
Effective Date: 
 
“Effective Date” shall mean August 1, 1997, or such later date that FERC permits the Operating 
Agreement to go into effect. 
 
Effective FTR Holder: 
 
“Effective FTR Holder” shall mean: 
 
(i) For an FTR Holder that is either a (a) privately held company, or (b) a municipality or 
electric cooperative, as defined in the Federal Power Act, such FTR Holder, together with 
any Affiliate, subsidiary or parent of the FTR Holder, any other entity that is under common 
ownership, wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, or has the ability to influence, directly or 
indirectly, the management or policies of the FTR Holder; or  
 
(ii) For an FTR Holder that is a publicly traded company including a wholly owned 
subsidiary of a publicly traded company, such FTR Holder, together with any Affiliate, 
subsidiary or parent of the FTR Holder, any other PJM Member has over 10% common 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions E - F 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 2 
ownership with the FTR Holder, wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, or has the ability to 
influence, directly or indirectly, the management or policies of the FTR Holder; or  
 
(iii)  an FTR Holder together with any other PJM Member, including also any Affiliate, 
subsidiary or parent of such other PJM Member, with which it shares common ownership, 
wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, in any third entity which is a PJM Member (e.g., a 
joint venture). 
 
EIDSN, Inc.: 
 
“EIDSN, Inc.” shall mean the nonstock, nonprofit corporation, formerly known as Eastern 
Interconnection Data Sharing Network, Inc., or any successor thereto, that is operated primarily 
for the purpose of developing operating tools and the facilitation of the secure, consistent, 
effective, and efficient sharing of important electric transmission and operational data among 
Reliability Coordinators and other relevant parties to help improve electric industry operations 
and promote the reliable and efficient operation of the bulk electric system in the Eastern 
Interconnection. 
 
Electric Distributor: 
 
“Electric Distributor” shall mean a Member that:  1) owns or leases with rights equivalent to 
ownership electric distribution facilities that are used to provide electric distribution service to 
electric load within the PJM Region; or 2) is a generation and transmission cooperative or a joint 
municipal agency that has a member that owns electric distribution facilities used to provide 
electric distribution service to electric load within the PJM Region. 
 
Eligible Fast-Start Resource: 
 
“Eligible Fast-Start Resource” shall mean a Fast-Start Resource that is eligible for the 
application of Integer Relaxation during the calculation of Locational Marginal Prices as set 
forth in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2.2. 
 
Emergency: 
 
“Emergency” shall mean:  (i) an abnormal system condition requiring manual or automatic 
action to maintain system frequency, or to prevent loss of firm load, equipment damage, or 
tripping of system elements that could adversely affect the reliability of an electric system or the 
safety of persons or property; or (ii) a fuel shortage requiring departure from normal operating 
procedures in order to minimize the use of such scarce fuel; or (iii) a condition that requires 
implementation of emergency procedures as defined in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Emergency Load Response Program: 
“Emergency Load Response Program” shall mean the program by which Curtailment Service 
Providers may be compensated by PJM for Demand Resources that will reduce load when 
dispatched by PJM during emergency conditions, and is described in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 8 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 8.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions E - F 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 3 
 
End-Use Customer: 
 
“End-Use Customer” shall mean a Member that is a retail end-user of electricity within the PJM 
Region.  For purposes of Member Committee classification, a Member that is a retail end-user 
that owns generation may qualify as an End-Use Customer if:  (1) the average physical unforced 
capacity owned by the Member and its affiliates in the PJM region over the five Planning Periods 
immediately preceding the relevant Planning Period does not exceed the average PJM capacity 
obligation for the Member and its affiliates over the same time period; or (2) the average energy 
produced by the Member and its affiliates within the PJM region over the five Planning Periods 
immediately preceding the relevant Planning Period does not exceed the average energy 
consumed by that Member and its affiliates within the PJM region over the same time period.  
The foregoing notwithstanding, taking retail service may not be sufficient to qualify a Member 
as an End-Use Customer. 
 
Energy Market Opportunity Cost: 
 
“Energy Market Opportunity Cost” shall mean the difference between (a) the forecasted cost to 
operate a specific generating unit when the unit only has a limited number of available run hours 
due to limitations imposed on the unit by Applicable Laws and Regulations and (b) the 
forecasted future Locational Marginal Price at which the generating unit could run while not 
violating such limitations.  Energy Market Opportunity Cost therefore is the value associated 
with a specific generating unit’s lost opportunity to produce energy during a higher valued period 
of time occurring within the same compliance period, which compliance period is determined by 
the applicable regulatory authority and is reflected in the rules set forth in PJM Manual 15.  
Energy Market Opportunity Costs shall be limited to those resources which are specifically 
delineated in Operating Agreement, Schedule 2. 
 
Energy Storage Resource: 
 
“Energy Storage Resource” shall mean a resource capable of receiving electric energy from the 
grid and storing it for later injection to the grid that participates in the PJM Energy, Capacity 
and/or Ancillary Services markets as a Market Participant.  Open-Loop Hybrid Resources are not 
Energy Storage Resources. 
 
Energy Storage Resource Model Participant:  
 
“Energy Storage Resource Model Participant” shall mean an Energy Storage Resource utilizing 
the Energy Storage Resource Participation Model.   
 
Energy Storage Resource Participation Model:  
 
“Energy Storage Resource Participation Model” shall mean the participation model accepted by 
the Commission in Docket No. ER19-469-000. 
 
Equivalent Load: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions E - F 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 4 
 
“Equivalent Load” shall mean the sum of a Market Participant’s net system requirements to 
serve its customer load in the PJM Region, if any, plus its net bilateral transactions. 
 
Extended Primary Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Extended Primary Reserve Requirement” shall equal the Primary Reserve Requirement in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone, plus 190 MW, plus any additional reserves scheduled under 
emergency conditions necessary to address operational uncertainty.  The Extended Primary 
Reserve Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  
 
Extended Synchronized Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Extended Synchronized Reserve Requirement” shall equal the Synchronized Reserve 
Requirement in a Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone, plus 190 MW, plus any additional reserves 
scheduled under emergency conditions necessary to address operational uncertainty. The 
Extended Synchronized Reserve Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
Extended 30-minute Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Extended 30-minute Reserve Requirement” shall equal the 30-minute Reserve Requirement in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone, plus 190 MW, plus any additional reserves scheduled under 
emergency conditions necessary to address operational uncertainty.  The Extended 30-minute 
Reserve Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
External Market Buyer: 
 
“External Market Buyer” shall mean a Market Buyer making purchases of energy from the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market for consumption by end-users outside the PJM Region, or for load in 
the PJM Region that is not served by Network Transmission Service. 
 
External Resource: 
 
“External Resource” shall mean a generation resource located outside the metered boundaries of 
the PJM Region. 
 
Fast-Start Resource:  
 
“Fast-Start Resource” shall have the meaning set forth in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 2.2A 
 
FERC or Commission: 
 
“FERC” or “Commission” shall mean the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or any 
successor federal agency, commission or department exercising jurisdiction over the Tariff, 
Operating Agreement and Reliability Assurance Agreement. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions E - F 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 5 
 
Final Offer: 
  
“Final Offer” shall mean the offer on which a resource was dispatched by the Office of the 
Interconnection for a particular clock hour for an Operating Day. 
 
Finance Committee: 
 
“Finance Committee” shall mean the body formed pursuant to Operating Agreement, section 
7.5.1. 
 
Financial Transmission Right: 
 
“Financial Transmission Right” or “FTR” shall mean a right to receive Transmission Congestion 
Credits as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.2, and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.2.2. 
 
Financial Transmission Right Obligation: 
 
“Financial Transmission Right Obligation” shall mean a right to receive Transmission 
Congestion Credits as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.2(b), and the 
parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.2.2(c). 
 
Financial Transmission Right Option: 
 
“Financial Transmission Right Option” shall mean a right to receive Transmission Congestion 
Credits as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.2(c), and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.2.2(c). 
 
Flexible Resource:   
“Flexible Resource” shall mean a generating resource that must have a combined Start-up Time 
and Notification Time of less than or equal to two hours; and a Minimum Run Time of less than 
or equal to two hours. 
 
Form 715 Planning Criteria: 
 
“Form 715 Planning Criteria” shall mean individual Transmission Owner FERC-filed planning 
criteria as described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.2(e) and filed with FERC 
Form No. 715 and posted on the PJM website. 
 
FTR Holder: 
 
“FTR Holder” shall mean the PJM Member that has acquired and possesses an FTR. 
 
Fuel Cost Policy: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions E - F 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 6 
“Fuel Cost Policy” shall mean the document provided by a Market Seller to PJM and the Market 
Monitoring Unit in accordance with PJM Manual 15 and Operating Agreement, Schedule 2, 
which documents the Market Seller’s method used to price fuel for calculation of  the Market 
Seller’s cost-based offer(s)for a generation resource. 
 

