Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions C - D 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 1 
Definitions C - D 
 
Capacity Resource: 
 
“Capacity Resource” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Capacity Storage Resource: 
 
“Capacity Storage Resource” shall mean any Energy Storage Resource that participates in the 
Reliability Pricing Model or is otherwise treated as capacity in PJM’s markets such as through a 
Fixed Resource Requirement Capacity Plan. 
 
Catastrophic Force Majeure: 
 
“Catastrophic Force Majeure” shall not include any act of God, labor disturbance, act of the 
public enemy, war, insurrection, riot, fire, storm or flood, explosion, or curtailment, order, 
regulation or restriction imposed by governmental, military or lawfully established civilian 
authorities, unless as a consequence of any such action, event, or combination of events, either 
(i) all, or substantially all, of the Transmission System is unavailable, or (ii) all, or substantially 
all, of the interstate natural gas pipeline network, interstate rail, interstate highway or federal 
waterway transportation network serving the PJM Region is unavailable.  The Office of the 
Interconnection shall determine whether an event of Catastrophic Force Majeure has occurred for 
purposes of this Agreement, the PJM Tariff, and the Reliability Assurance Agreement, based on 
an examination of available evidence.  The Office of the Interconnection’s determination is 
subject to review by the Commission. 
 
Charge Economic Maximum Megawatts: 
 
“Charge Economic Maximum Megawatts” shall mean the greatest magnitude of megawatt power 
consumption available for charging in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Continuous Mode or in Charge Mode.  Charge 
Economic Maximum Megawatts shall be the Economic Minimum for an Energy Storage 
Resource or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode or in Continuous Mode. 
 
Charge Economic Minimum Megawatts: 
 
“Charge Economic Minimum Megawatts” shall mean the smallest magnitude of megawatt power 
consumption available for charging in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode.  Charge Economic Minimum 
Megawatts shall be the Economic Maximum for an Energy Storage Resource or Open-Loop 
Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode. 
 
Charge Mode: 
 
“Charge Mode” shall mean the mode of operation of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource that only includes negative megawatt quantities (i.e., 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions C - D 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 2 
the Energy Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource is only 
withdrawing megawatts from the grid).   
 
Charge Ramp Rate: 
 
“Charge Ramp Rate” shall mean the Ramping Capability of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode. 
 
Closed-Loop Hybrid Resource: 
 
“Closed-Loop Hybrid Resource” shall mean a Hybrid Resource without a storage component, or 
that does not operate by charging its storage component from the grid. 
 
Cold/Warm/Hot Notification Time: 
 
“Cold/Warm/Hot Notification Time” shall mean the time interval between PJM notification and 
the beginning of the start sequence for a generating unit that is currently in its cold/warm/hot 
temperature state. The start sequence may include steps such as any valve operation, starting feed 
water pumps, startup of auxiliary equipment, etc. 
 
Cold/Warm/Hot Start-up Time: 
 
For all generating units that are not combined cycle units, “Cold/Warm/Hot Start-up Time” shall 
mean the time interval, measured in hours, from the beginning of the start sequence to the point 
after generator breaker closure, which is typically indicated by telemetered or aggregated State 
Estimator megawatts greater than zero for a generating unit in its cold/warm/hot temperature 
state. For combined cycle units, “Cold/Warm/Hot Start-up Time” shall mean the time interval 
from the beginning of the start sequence to the point after first combustion turbine generator 
breaker closure in its cold/warm/hot temperature state, which is typically indicated by 
telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero. For all generating units, 
the start sequence may include steps such as any valve operation, starting feed water pumps, 
startup of auxiliary equipment, etc. Other more detailed actions that could signal the beginning of 
the start sequence could include, but are not limited to, the operation of pumps, condensers, fans, 
water chemistry evaluations, checklists, valves, fuel systems, combustion turbines, starting 
engines or systems, maintaining stable fuel/air ratios, and other auxiliary equipment necessary 
for startup. 
 
Cold Weather Alert: 
 
“Cold Weather Alert” shall mean the notice that PJM provides to PJM Members, Transmission 
Owners, resource owners and operators, customers, and regulators to prepare personnel and 
facilities for expected extreme cold weather conditions. 
 
Co-Located Resource: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions C - D 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 3 
“Co-Located Resource” shall mean a component of a Mixed Technology Facility that operates in 
the capacity, energy, and/or ancillary services market(s) as a separate resource from the other 
components of such facility. 
 
Committed Offer: 
 
The “Committed Offer shall mean 1) for pool-scheduled resources, an offer on which a resource 
was scheduled by the Office of the Interconnection for a particular clock hour for an Operating 
Day, and 2) for self-scheduled resources, either the offer on which the Market Seller has elected 
to schedule the resource or the applicable offer for the resource determined pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.4, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 6.4, or Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.6, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.6, for a particular clock hour for an Operating Day.  
 
Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement Program:  
 
“Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement Program” shall mean the program to be used by the 
NERC and the Regional Entities to monitor, assess and enforce compliance with the NERC 
Reliability Standards.  As part of a Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement Program, NERC 
and the Regional Entities may, among other things, conduct investigations, determine fault and 
assess monetary penalties. 
 
Composite Energy Offer:  
 
“Composite Energy Offer” for generation resources shall mean the sum (in $/MWh) of the 
Incremental Energy Offer and amortized Start-Up Costs and amortized No-load Costs, and for 
Economic Load Response Participant resources the sum (in $/MWh) of the Incremental Energy 
Offer and amortized shutdown costs, as determined in accordance with Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 2.4 and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2.4A and the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
Condense Energy Use: 
 
“Condense Energy Use” shall mean the power (MW) used by a condensing resource while 
operating in condensing mode.  The value must be less than or equal to the actual power 
consumed. 
 
Condense Startup Cost: 
 
“Condense Startup Cost” shall mean the applicable costs for a resource to transition from offline 
state to operate in condensing mode.  Condense Startup Cost shall consist primarily of the unit’s 
start heat input (adjusted by the performance factor) times the fuel cost associated with the 
transition from offline state to operate in condensing mode.  It also may include operating costs, 
Maintenance Adders, emissions allowances/adders, and station service cost associated with the 
transition from offline state to operate in condensing mode.  Condense Startup Cost shall be 
capped at the applicable Start-Up Cost of the Cost-Based Offer. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions C - D 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 4 
 
Condense to Generate Cost: 
 
“Condense to Generate Cost” shall mean the applicable costs for a resource to transition from 
operating in condensing mode to operating in generating mode.  Condense to Generate Cost shall 
consist primarily of the unit’s start heat input (adjusted by the performance factor) times the fuel 
cost associated with the transition from operating in condensing mode to operating in generating 
mode.  It also may include operating costs, Maintenance Adders, emissions allowances/adders, 
and station service cost associated with the transition from operating in condensing mode to 
operating in generating mode.  Condense to Generate Cost shall be capped at the applicable 
Start-Up Cost of the Cost-Based Offer. 
 
Congestion Price: 
 
“Congestion Price” shall mean the congestion component of the Locational Marginal Price, 
which is the effect on transmission congestion costs (whether positive or negative) associated 
with increasing the output of a generation resource or decreasing the consumption by a Demand 
Resource, based on the effect of increased generation from or consumption by the resource on 
transmission line loadings, calculated as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2. 
 
Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, PJM Transmission Owners Agreement or 
Transmission Owners Agreement: 
 
“Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement,” “PJM Transmission Owners Agreement” or 
Transmission Owners Agreement” shall mean that certain Consolidated Transmission Owners 
Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2005, by and among the Transmission Owners and by and 
between the Transmission Owners and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. on file with the 
Commission, as amended from time to time. 
 
Continuous Mode: 
 
“Continuous Mode” shall mean the mode of operation of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource that includes both negative and positive megawatt 
quantities (i.e., the Energy Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource 
is capable of continually and immediately transitioning from withdrawing megawatt quantities 
from the grid to injecting megawatt quantities onto the grid or injecting megawatts to 
withdrawing megawatts).  Energy Storage Resource Model Participants or Open-Loop Hybrid 
Resource operating in Continuous Mode are considered to have an unlimited ramp rate.  
Continuous Mode requires Discharge Economic Maximum Megawatts to be zero or correspond 
to an injection, and Charge Economic Maximum Megawatts to be zero or correspond to a 
withdrawal. 
 
Control Area: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions C - D 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 5 
“Control Area” shall mean an electric power system or combination of electric power systems 
bounded by interconnection metering and telemetry to which a common automatic generation 
control scheme is applied in order to: 
 
(a) match the power output of the generators within the electric power system(s) and energy 
purchased from entities outside the electric power system(s), with the load within the electric 
power system(s); 
 
(b) maintain scheduled interchange with other Control Areas, within the limits of Good 
Utility Practice; 
 
(c) maintain the frequency of the electric power system(s) within reasonable limits in 
accordance with Good Utility Practice and the criteria of NERC and each Applicable Regional 
Entity;  
 
(d) maintain power flows on transmission facilities within appropriate limits to preserve 
reliability; and 
 
(e) provide sufficient generating capacity to maintain operating reserves in accordance with 
Good Utility Practice. 
 
Control Zone: 
 
“Control Zone” shall mean one Zone or multiple contiguous Zones, as designated in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
Coordinated External Transaction: 
 
“Coordinated External Transaction” shall mean a transaction to simultaneously purchase and sell 
energy on either side of a CTS Enabled Interface in accordance with the procedures of Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.13 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.13. 
 
Coordinated Transaction Scheduling: 
 
“Coordinated Transaction Scheduling” or “CTS” shall mean the scheduling of Coordinated 
External Transactions at a CTS Enabled Interface in accordance with the procedures of 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.13, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 1.13. 
 
Counterparty: 
“Counterparty” shall mean PJMSettlement as the contracting party, in its name and own right and 
not as an agent, to an agreement or transaction with a Market Participant or other entities, including 
the agreements and transactions with customers regarding transmission service and other 
transactions under the PJM Tariff and this Operating Agreement.  PJMSettlement shall not be a 
counterparty to (i) any bilateral transactions between Members, or (ii) any Member’s self-supply 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions C - D 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 6 
of energy to serve its load, or (iii) any Member’s self-schedule of energy reported to the extent that 
energy serves that Member’s own load.   
 
Credit Breach: 
 
“Credit Breach” shall mean (a) the failure of a Participant to perform, observe, meet or comply 
with any requirements of Tariff, Attachment Q or other provisions of the Agreements, other than 
a Financial Default, or (b) a determination by PJM and notice to the Participant that a Participant 
represents an unreasonable credit risk to the PJM Markets; that, in either event, has not been 
cured or remedied after any required notice has been given and any cure period has elapsed.   
 
CTS Enabled Interface: 
 
“CTS Enabled Interface” shall mean an interface between the PJM Control Area and an adjacent 
Control Area at which the Office of the Interconnection has authorized the use of Coordinated 
Transaction Scheduling (“CTS”). The CTS Enabled Interfaces between the PJM Control Area 
and the New York Independent System Operator, Inc. Control Area shall be designated in Joint 
Operating Agreement Among and Between New York Independent System Operator Inc. and 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 45) Schedule A.  The CTS Enabled 
Interfaces between the PJM Control Area and the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, 
Inc. shall be designated consistent with Joint Operating Agreement between Midcontinent 
Independent System Operator, Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C, Attachment 3, section 2. 
 
CTS Interface Bid: 
 
“CTS Interface Bid” shall mean a unified real-time bid to simultaneously purchase and sell 
energy on either side of a CTS Enabled Interface in accordance with the procedures of Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.13, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.13. 
 
Curtailment Service Provider: 
 
“Curtailment Service Provider” or “CSP” shall mean a Member or a Special Member, which 
action on behalf of itself or one or more other Members or non-Members, participates in the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market, Ancillary Services markets, and/or Reliability Pricing Model by 
causing a reduction in demand. 
 
Day-ahead Congestion Price: 
 
“Day-ahead Congestion Price” shall mean the Congestion Price resulting from the Day-ahead 
Energy Market. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market” shall mean the schedule of commitments for the purchase or sale of 
energy and payment of Transmission Congestion Charges developed by the Office of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions C - D 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 7 
Interconnection as a result of the offers and specifications submitted in accordance with 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.10, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 1.10. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market Injection Congestion Credits: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market Injection Congestion Credits” shall mean those congestion credits 
paid to Market Participants for supply transactions in the Day-ahead Energy Market including 
generation schedules, Increment Offers, Up-to Congestion Transactions, import transactions, and 
Day-ahead Pseudo-Tie Transactions. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges” shall be equal to the sum of Day-
ahead Energy Market Withdrawal Congestion Charges minus [the sum of Day-ahead Energy 
Market Injection Congestion Credits plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to the Joint 
Operating Agreement between the Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, 
Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 38), plus any congestion 
charges calculated pursuant to the Joint Operating Agreement Among and Between New York 
Independent System Operator Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC 
No. 45), plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to agreements between the Office of 
the Interconnection and other entities, as applicable)]. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market Withdrawal Congestion Charges: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market Withdrawal Congestion Charges” shall mean those congestion 
charges collected from Market Participants for withdrawal transactions in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market from transactions including Demand Bids, Decrement Bids, Up-to Congestion 
Transactions, Export Transactions, and Day-ahead Pseudo-Tie Transactions. 
 
Day-ahead Loss Price: 
 
“Day-ahead Loss Price” shall mean the Loss Price resulting from the Day-ahead Energy Market. 
 
Day-ahead Prices: 
 
“Day-ahead Prices” shall mean the Locational Marginal Prices resulting from the Day-ahead 
Energy Market. 
 
Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transaction:  
 
“Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transaction” shall mean a transaction scheduled in the Day-ahead 
Energy Market to the PJM-MISO interface from a generator within the PJM balancing authority 
area that Pseudo-Ties into the MISO balancing authority area. 
 
Day-ahead Settlement Interval:  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions C - D 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 8 
 
“Day-ahead Settlement Interval” shall mean the interval used by settlements, which shall be 
every one clock hour.  
 
Day-ahead System Energy Price: 
 
“Day-ahead System Energy Price” shall mean the System Energy Price resulting from the Day-
ahead Energy Market. 
 
Decrement Bid: 
 
“Decrement Bid” shall mean a type of Virtual Transaction that is a bid to purchase energy at a 
specified location in the Day-ahead Energy Market.  A cleared Decrement Bid results in 
scheduled load at the specified location in the Day-ahead Energy Market. 
 
Default Allocation Assessment: 
 
“Default Allocation Assessment” shall mean the assessment determined pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, section 15.2.2. 
 
Demand Bid: 
 
“Demand Bid” shall mean a bid, submitted by a Load Serving Entity in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market, to purchase energy at its contracted load location, for a specified timeframe and 
megawatt quantity, that if cleared will result in energy being scheduled at the specified location 
in the Day-ahead Energy Market and in the physical transfer of energy during the relevant 
Operating Day.   
 
Demand Bid Limit: 
 
“Demand Bid Limit” shall mean the largest MW volume of Demand Bids that may be submitted 
by a Load Serving Entity for any hour of an Operating Day, as determined pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.10.1B, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.10.1B.    
 
Demand Bid Screening: 
 
“Demand Bid Screening” shall mean the process by which Demand Bids are reviewed against 
the applicable Demand Bid Limit,  and rejected if they would exceed that limit, as determined 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.10.1B, and the parallel provisions of 
Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.10.1B. 
 
Demand Resource: 
 
“Demand Resource” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions C - D 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 9 
Designated Entity: 
 
“Designated Entity” shall mean an entity, including an existing Transmission Owner or 
Nonincumbent Developer, designated by the Office of the Interconnection with the responsibility 
to construct, own, operate, maintain, and finance Immediate-need Reliability Projects, Short-term 
Projects, Long-lead Projects, or Economic-based Enhancements or Expansions pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.8. 
Direct Charging Energy: 
 
“Direct Charging Energy” shall mean the energy that an Energy Storage Resource or Open-Loop 
Hybrid Resource purchases from the PJM Interchange Energy Market and (i) later resells to the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market; or (ii) is lost to conversion inefficiencies, provided that such 
inefficiencies are an unavoidable component of the conversion, storage, and discharge process 
that is used to resell energy back to the PJM Interchange Energy Market.   
 
Direct Load Control: 
 
“Direct Load Control” shall mean load reduction that is controlled directly by the Curtailment 
Service Provider’s market operations center or its agent, in response to PJM instructions.  
 
Discharge Economic Maximum Megawatts: 
 
“Discharge Economic Maximum Megawatts” shall mean the maximum megawatt power output 
available for discharge in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model Participant 
or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Continuous Mode or in Discharge Mode. Discharge 
Economic Maximum Megawatts shall be the Economic Maximum for an Energy Storage 
Resource or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Discharge Mode or in Continuous Mode. 
 
Discharge Economic Minimum Megawatts: 
 
“Discharge Economic Minimum Megawatts” shall mean the minimum megawatt power output 
available for discharge in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model Participant 
or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Discharge Mode.  Discharge Economic Minimum Megawatts 
shall be the Economic Minimum for an Energy Storage Resource or Open-Loop Hybrid 
Resource in Discharge Mode. 
 
Discharge Mode: 
 
“Discharge Mode” shall mean the mode of operation of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource that only includes positive megawatt quantities (i.e., 
the Energy Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource is only injecting 
megawatts onto the grid).   
 
Discharge Ramp Rate: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions C - D 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 10 
“Discharge Ramp Rate” shall mean the Ramping Capability of an Energy Storage Resource 
Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Discharge Mode. 
 
Dispatch Rate:  
 
“Dispatch Rate” shall mean the control signal, expressed in dollars per megawatt-hour, 
calculated and transmitted continuously and dynamically to direct the output level of all 
generation resources dispatched by the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with the 
Offer Data. 
 
Dispatched Charging Energy:   
 
“Dispatched Charging Energy” shall mean Direct Charging Energy that an Energy Storage 
Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource receives from the electric grid 
pursuant to PJM dispatch while providing one of the following services in the PJM markets: 
Energy Imbalance Service pursuant to Tariff, Schedule 4; Regulation; Tier 2 Synchronized 
Reserves; or Reactive Service. Energy Storage Resource Model Participants and Open-Loop 
Hybrid Resource shall be considered to be providing Energy Imbalance Service when they are 
dispatchable by PJM in real-time.   
 
Dynamic Schedule: 
 
“Dynamic Schedule” shall have the same meaning set forth in the NERC Glossary of Terms 
Used in NERC Reliability Standards. 
 
Dynamic Transfer: 
 
“Dynamic Transfer” shall mean a Pseudo-Tie or Dynamic Schedule. 

