Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions Q - R 
Effective Date: 10/1/2025 - Docket #: ER24-1772-000 - Page 1 
Definitions Q - R 
 
Ramping Capability: 
 
“Ramping Capability” shall mean the sustained rate of change of generator output, in megawatts 
per minute. 
 
Real-time Congestion Price: 
 
“Real-time Congestion Price” shall mean the Congestion Price resulting from the Office of the 
Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Loss Price: 
 
“Real-time Loss Price” shall mean the Loss Price resulting from the Office of the 
Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Offer: 
 
“Real-time Offer” shall mean a new offer or an update to a Market Seller’s existing cost-based or 
market-based offer for a clock hour, submitted for use after the close of the Day-ahead Energy 
Market. 
 
Real-time Prices: 
 
“Real-time Prices” shall mean the Locational Marginal Prices resulting from the Office of the 
Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Energy Market: 
 
“Real-time Energy Market” shall mean the purchase or sale of energy and payment of 
Transmission Congestion Charges for quantity deviations from the Day-ahead Energy Market in 
the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Settlement Interval: 
 
“Real-time Settlement Interval” shall mean the interval used by settlements, which shall be every 
five minutes. 
 
Real-time State of Charge: 
 
“Real-time State of Charge” shall mean the current State of Charge of an Energy Storage 
Resource Model Participant, measured in units of megawatt-hours. 
 
Real-time System Energy Price: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions Q - R 
Effective Date: 10/1/2025 - Docket #: ER24-1772-000 - Page 2 
“Real-time System Energy Price” shall mean the System Energy Price resulting from the Office 
of the Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Regional Entity: 
 
“Regional Entity” shall mean an organization that NERC has delegated the authority to propose 
and enforce reliability standards pursuant to the Federal Power Act. 
 
Regional RTEP Project: 
 
“Regional RTEP Project” shall mean a transmission expansion or enhancement rated at 230 kV or 
above which is required for compliance with the following PJM criteria:  system reliability, 
operational performance or economic criteria, pursuant to a determination by the Office of the 
Interconnection. 
 
Registered Entity: 
 
“Registered Entity” shall mean the entity registered under the NERC Functional Model and NERC 
Rules of Procedures for the purpose of compliance with NERC Reliability Standards and 
responsible for carrying out the tasks within a NERC function without regard to whether a task or 
tasks are performed by another entity pursuant to the terms of the PJM Governing Agreements. 
 
Regulation: 
 
“Regulation” shall mean the capability of a specific generation resource or Demand Resource 
with appropriate telecommunications, control and response capability to separately increase and 
decrease its output or adjust load in response to a regulating control signal, in accordance with 
the specifications in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Regulation Requirement: 
 
“Regulation Requirement” shall mean the required megawatts of performance-adjusted 
Regulation capability to be maintained in a Regulation Zone. The Regulation Requirement is 
defined as a set megawatt value by commitment interval and can increase to account for 
additional operational uncertainty, in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
Regulation Zone: 
 
“Regulation Zone” shall mean any of those one or more geographic areas, each consisting of a 
combination of one or more Control Zone(s) as designated by the Office of the Interconnection in 
the PJM Manuals, relevant to provision of, and requirements for, regulation service. 
 
Related Parties: 
 
“Related Parties” shall mean, solely for purposes of the governance provisions of the Operating 
Agreement:  (i) any generation and transmission cooperative and one of its distribution cooperative 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions Q - R 
Effective Date: 10/1/2025 - Docket #: ER24-1772-000 - Page 3 
members; and (ii) any joint municipal agency and one of its members.  For purposes of the 
Operating Agreement, representatives of state or federal government agencies shall not be deemed 
Related Parties with respect to each other, and a public body's regulatory authority, if any, over a 
Member shall not be deemed to make it a Related Party with respect to that Member. 
 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority: 
 
“Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority” shall mean an entity that has jurisdiction over and 
establishes prices and policies for competition for providers of retail electric service to end-
customers, such as the city council for a municipal utility, the governing board of a cooperative 
utility, the state public utility commission or any other such entity. 
 
Reliability Assurance Agreement or PJM Reliability Assurance Agreement: 
 
“Reliability Assurance Agreement” or “PJM Reliability Assurance Agreement” shall mean that 
certain Reliability Assurance Agreement Among Load-Serving Entities in the PJM Region, on file 
with FERC as PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. Rate Schedule FERC. No. 44, and as amended from 
time to time thereafter.  
 
Reliability Coordinator: 
 
“Reliability Coordinator” shall have the same meaning set forth in the NERC Glossary of Terms 
used in NERC Reliability Standards. 
 
Reserve Penalty Factor: 
 
“Reserve Penalty Factor” shall mean the cost, in $/MWh, associated with being unable to meet a 
specific reserve requirement in a Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone.  A Reserve Penalty Factor 
will be defined for each reserve requirement in a Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone. 
 
Reserve Sub-zone: 
 
“Reserve Sub-zone” shall mean any of those geographic areas wholly contained within a Reserve 
Zone, consisting of a combination of a portion of one or more Control Zone(s) as designated by 
the Office of the Interconnection in the PJM Manuals, relevant to provision of, and requirements 
for, reserve service. 
 
Reserve Zone: 
 
“Reserve Zone” shall mean any of those geographic areas consisting of a combination of one or 
more Control Zone(s) as designated by the Office of the Interconnection in the PJM Manuals, 
relevant to provision of, and requirements for, reserve service. 
 
Residual Auction Revenue Rights: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA 1. DEFINITIONS --> OA Definitions Q - R 
Effective Date: 10/1/2025 - Docket #: ER24-1772-000 - Page 4 
“Residual Auction Revenue Rights” shall mean incremental stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights 
created within a Planning Period by an increase in transmission system capability, including the 
return to service of existing transmission capability, that was not modeled pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.5, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 7.5 in compliance with Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.2(h), 
and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4.2(h), and, if modeled, 
would have increased the amount of stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights allocated pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.2, and the parallel provisions of Attachment K-
Appendix, section 7.4.2; provided that, the foregoing notwithstanding, Residual Auction 
Revenue Rights shall exclude:  1) Incremental Auction Revenue Rights allocated pursuant to 
Tariff, Part VI; and 2) Auction Revenue Rights allocated to entities that are assigned cost 
responsibility pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6 for transmission upgrades that create 
such rights.  
 
Residual Metered Load: 
 
“Residual Metered Load” shall mean all load remaining in an electric distribution company’s 
fully metered franchise area(s) or service territory(ies) after all nodally priced load of entities 
serving load in such area(s) or territory(ies) has been carved out. 
 
Revenue Data for Settlements: 
 
“Revenue Data for Settlements” shall mean energy quantities used in accounting and billing as 
determined pursuant to Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix and the corresponding provisions of 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1. 
 
 
 

