[SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1-MARKET OPERATIONS - Part 2 of 4]

established in this Agreement, and as specified in the Schedules to this Agreement and the PJM 
Manuals.  Failure to comply with the foregoing operational requirements shall subject a Market 
Participant to such reasonable charges or other remedies or sanctions for non-compliance as may 
be established by the PJM Board, including legal or regulatory proceedings as authorized by the 
PJM Board to enforce the obligations of this Agreement. 
 
(c) The Office of the Interconnection may establish such committees with a representative of 
each Market Participant, and the Market Participants agree to provide appropriately qualified 
personnel for such committees, as may be necessary for the Office of the Interconnection and 
PJMSettlement to perform its obligations hereunder. 
 
(d) All Market Participants shall provide to the Office of the Interconnection the scheduling 
and other information specified in the Schedules to this Agreement, and such other information 
as the Office of the Interconnection may reasonably require for the reliable and efficient 
operation of the PJM Region and PJM Interchange Energy Market, and for compliance with 
applicable regulatory requirements for posting market and related information.  Such information 
shall be provided as much in advance as possible, but in no event later than the deadlines 
established by the Schedules to this Agreement, or by the Office of the Interconnection in 
conformance with such Schedules.  Such information shall include, but not be limited to, 
maintenance and other anticipated outages of generation or transmission facilities, scheduling 
and related information on bilateral transactions and self-scheduled resources, and 
implementation of interruption of load, Price Responsive Demand, Economic Load Response 
Participant resources, and other load reduction measures.  The Office of the Interconnection shall 
abide by appropriate requirements for the non-disclosure and protection of any confidential or 
proprietary information given to the Office of the Interconnection by a Market Participant.  Each 
Market Participant shall maintain or cause to be maintained compatible information and 
communications systems, as specified by the Office of the Interconnection, required to transmit 
scheduling, dispatch, or other time-sensitive information to the Office of the Interconnection in a 
timely manner.  Market Participants that request additional information or communications 
system access or connections beyond those which are required by the Office of the 
Interconnection for reliability in the operation of the LLC or the Office of the Interconnection, 
including but not limited to PJMnet or Internet SCADA connections, shall be solely responsible 
for the cost of such additional access and connections and for purchasing, leasing, installing and 
maintaining any associated facilities and equipment, which shall remain the property of the 
Market Participant. 
 
(e) Subject to the requirements for Economic Load Response Participants in section 1.5A 
above, each Market Participant shall install and operate, or shall otherwise arrange for, metering 
and related equipment capable of recording and transmitting all voice and data communications 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 3 
reasonably necessary for the Office of the Interconnection and PJMSettlement to perform the 
services specified in this Agreement.  A Market Participant that elects to be separately billed for 
its PJM Interchange shall, to the extent necessary, be individually metered in accordance with 
Operating Agreement, section 14, or shall agree upon an allocation of PJM Interchange between 
it and the Market Participant through whose meters the unmetered Market Participant’s PJM 
Interchange is delivered.  The Office of the Interconnection shall be notified of the allocation by 
the foregoing Market Participants. 
 
(f) Each Market Participant shall operate, or shall cause to be operated, any generating 
resources owned or controlled by such Market Participant that are within the PJM Region or 
otherwise supplying energy to or through the PJM Region in a manner that is consistent with the 
standards, requirements or directions of the Office of the Interconnection and that will permit the 
Office of the Interconnection to perform its obligations under this Agreement; provided, 
however, no Market Participant shall be required to take any action that is inconsistent with 
Good Utility Practice or applicable law. 
 
(g) Each Market Participant shall follow the directions of the Office of the Interconnection to 
take actions to prevent, manage, alleviate or end an Emergency in a manner consistent with this 
Agreement and the procedures of the PJM Region as specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
 (h) Each Market Participant shall obtain and maintain all permits, licenses or approvals 
required for the Market Participant to participate in the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the 
manner contemplated by this Agreement. 
 
(i) Consistent with Tariff, section 36.1.1, to the extent its generating facility is dispatchable, 
a Market Participant shall submit an Economic Minimum in the Real-time Energy Market that is 
no greater than the higher of its physical operating minimum or its Capacity Interconnection 
Rights, as that term is defined in the PJM Tariff, associated with such generating facility under 
its Interconnection Service Agreement under Attachment O of the PJM Tariff, Generation 
Interconnection Agreement under Part IX of the PJM Tariff, or Wholesale Market Participation 
Agreement under Part IX of the  PJM Tariff, or functionally equivalent agreement. 
 
1.7.5 Market Operations Center. 
 
Each Market Participant shall maintain a Market Operations Center, or shall make appropriate 
arrangements for the performance of such services on its behalf.  A Market Operations Center 
shall meet the performance, equipment, communications, staffing and training standards and 
requirements specified in this Agreement, and as may be further described in the PJM Manuals, 
for the scheduling and completion of transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market and the 
maintenance of the reliable operation of the PJM Region, and shall be sufficient to enable (i) a 
Market Seller or an Economic Load Response Participant to perform all terms and conditions of 
its offers to the PJM Interchange Energy Market, and (ii) a Market Buyer or an Economic Load 
Response Participant to conform to the requirements for purchasing from the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market. 
 
1.7.6 Scheduling and Dispatching.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 4 
 
(a) The Office of the Interconnection shall schedule and dispatch in real-time generation 
resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources economically on the basis of 
least-cost, security-constrained dispatch and the prices and operating characteristics offered by 
Market Sellers, continuing until sufficient generation resources and/or Economic Load Response 
Participant resources are dispatched to serve the PJM Interchange Energy Market energy 
purchase requirements under normal system conditions of the Market Buyers (taking into 
account any reductions to such requirements in accordance with PRD Curves properly submitted 
by PRD Providers), as well as the requirements of the PJM Region for ancillary services 
provided by generation resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources, in 
accordance with this Agreement.  Such scheduling and dispatch shall recognize transmission 
constraints on coordinated flowgates external to the Transmission System in accordance with 
Appendix A to the Joint Operating Agreement between the Midwest Independent Transmission 
System Operator, Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 38), the 
Joint Operating Agreement Among and Between New York Independent System Operator Inc. 
and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 45), and on other such 
flowgates that are coordinated in accordance with agreements between the LLC and other 
entities.  Scheduling and dispatch shall be conducted in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall undertake to identify any conflict or 
incompatibility between the scheduling or other deadlines or specifications applicable to the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market, and any relevant procedures of another Control Area, or any tariff 
(including the PJM Tariff).   Upon determining that any such conflict or incompatibility exists, 
the Office of the Interconnection shall propose tariff or procedural changes, and undertake such 
other efforts as may be appropriate, to resolve any such conflict or incompatibility. 
 
(c) To protect its generation or distribution facilities, or local Transmission Facilities not 
under the monitoring responsibility and dispatch control of the Office of the Interconnection, an 
entity may request that the Office of the Interconnection schedule and dispatch generation or 
reductions in demand to meet a limit on Transmission Facilities different from that which the 
Office of the Interconnection has determined to be required for reliable operation of the 
Transmission System.  To the extent consistent with its other obligations under this Agreement, 
the Office of the Interconnection shall schedule and dispatch generation and reductions in 
demand in accordance with such request.  An entity that makes a request pursuant to this section 
1.7.6(c) shall be responsible for all generation and other costs resulting from its request that 
would not have been incurred by operating the Transmission System and scheduling and 
dispatching generation in the manner that the Office of the Interconnection otherwise has 
determined to be required for reliable operation of the Transmission System.  
 
1.7.7 Pricing. 
 
The price paid for energy bought and sold in the PJM Interchange Energy Market and for 
demand reductions will reflect the applicable interval Locational Marginal Price at each load and 
generation bus, determined by the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with this 
Agreement.  Transmission Congestion Charges and Transmission Loss Charges, which shall be 
determined by differences in Congestion Prices and Loss Prices in the applicable interval, shall 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 5 
be calculated by the Office of the Interconnection, and collected by PJMSettlement, and the 
revenues from there shall be disbursed by PJMSettlement in accordance with this Schedule. 
 
1.7.8 Generating Market Buyer Resources.  
 
A Generating Market Buyer may elect to self-schedule its generation resources up to that 
Generating Market Buyer’s Equivalent Load, in accordance with and subject to the procedures 
specified in this Schedule, and the accounting and billing requirements specified in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.  PJMSettlement shall not be a contracting party with respect 
to such self-scheduled or self-supplied transactions. 
 
1.7.9 Delivery to an External Market Buyer. 
 
A purchase of Spot Market Energy by an External Market Buyer shall be delivered to a bus or 
buses at the electrical boundaries of the PJM Region specified by the Office of the 
Interconnection, or to load in such area that is not served by Network Transmission Service, 
using Point-to-Point Transmission Service paid for by the External Market Buyer.  Further 
delivery of such energy shall be the responsibility of the External Market Buyer. 
 
1.7.10 Other Transactions. 
 
(a) Bilateral Transactions. 
 
(i) In addition to transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market, Market 
Participants may enter into bilateral contracts for the purchase or sale of 
electric energy to or from each other or any other entity, subject to the 
obligations of Market Participants to make Generation Capacity Resources 
available for dispatch by the Office of the Interconnection.  Such bilateral 
contracts shall be for the physical transfer of energy to or from a Market 
Participant and shall be reported to and coordinated with the Office of the 
Interconnection in accordance with this Schedule and pursuant to the 
LLC’s rules relating to its InSchedule and ExSchedule tools.   
 
(ii) For purposes of clarity, with respect to all bilateral contracts for the 
physical transfer of energy to a Market Participant inside the PJM Region, 
title to the energy that is the subject of the bilateral contract shall pass to 
the buyer at the source specified for the bilateral contract, and the further 
transmission of the energy or further sale of the energy into the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market shall be transacted by the buyer under the 
bilateral contract.  With respect to all bilateral contracts for the physical 
transfer of energy to an entity outside the PJM Region, title to the energy 
shall pass to the buyer at the border of the PJM Region and shall be 
delivered to the border using transmission service.  In no event shall the 
purchase and sale of energy between Market Participants under a bilateral 
contract constitute a transaction in the PJM Interchange Energy Market or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 6 
be construed to define PJMSettlement as a contracting party to any 
bilateral transactions between Market Participants. 
 
(iii)  Market Participants that are parties to bilateral contracts for the purchase 
and sale and physical transfer of energy reported to and coordinated with 
the Office of the Interconnection under this Schedule shall use all 
reasonable efforts, consistent with Good Utility Practice, to limit the 
megawatt hours of such reported transactions to amounts reflecting the 
expected load and other physical delivery obligations of the buyer under 
the bilateral contract. 
 
(iv)  All payments and related charges for the energy associated with a bilateral 
contract shall be arranged between the parties to the bilateral contract and 
shall not be billed or settled by the Office of the Interconnection or 
PJMSettlement.   The LLC, PJMSettlement, and the Members will not 
assume financial responsibility for the failure of a party to perform 
obligations owed to the other party under a bilateral contract reported and 
coordinated with the Office of the Interconnection under this Schedule. 
 
(v) A buyer under a bilateral contract shall guarantee and indemnify the LLC, 
PJMSettlement, and the Members for the costs of any Spot Market Backup 
used to meet the bilateral contract seller’s obligation to deliver energy 
under the bilateral contract and for which payment is not made to 
PJMSettlement by the seller under the bilateral contract, as determined by 
the Office of the Interconnection. Upon any default in obligations to the 
LLC or PJMSettlement by a Market Participant, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall (i) not accept any new InSchedule or ExSchedule 
reporting by the Market Participant and (ii) terminate all of the Market 
Participant’s InSchedules and ExSchedules associated with its bilateral 
contracts previously reported to the Office of the Interconnection for all 
days where delivery has not yet occurred.  All claims regarding a buyer’s 
default to a seller under a bilateral contract shall be resolved solely 
between the buyer and the seller.  In such circumstances, the seller may 
instruct the Office of the Interconnection to terminate all of the 
InSchedules and ExSchedules associated with bilateral contracts between 
buyer and seller previously reported to the Office of the Interconnection.  
PJMSettlement shall assign its claims against a seller with respect to a 
seller’s nonpayment for Spot Market Backup to a buyer to the extent that 
the buyer has made an indemnification payment to PJMSettlement with 
respect to the seller’s nonpayment.   
 
(vi) Bilateral contracts that do not contemplate the physical transfer of energy 
to or from a Market Participant are not subject to this Schedule, shall not 
be reported to and coordinated with the Office of the Interconnection, and 
shall not in any way constitute a transaction in the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 7 
 
(b) Market Participants shall have Spot Market Backup with respect to all bilateral 
transactions that contemplate the physical transfer of energy to or from a Market Participant, that 
are not Dynamic Transfers pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.12 and that 
are curtailed or interrupted for any reason (except for curtailments or interruptions through Load 
Management for load located within the PJM Region).   
 
(c) To the extent the Office of the Interconnection dispatches a Generating Market Buyer’s 
generation resources, such Generating Market Buyer may elect to net the output of such 
resources against its hourly Equivalent Load.  Such a Generating Market Buyer shall be deemed 
a buyer from the PJM Interchange Energy Market to the extent of its PJM Interchange Imports, 
and shall be deemed a seller to the PJM Interchange Energy Market to the extent of its PJM 
Interchange Exports. 
 
(d) A Market Seller may self-supply Station Power for its generation facility in accordance 
with the following provisions: 
 
(i) A Market Seller may self-supply Station Power for its generation facility 
during any month (1) when the net output of such facility is positive, or 
(2) when the net output of such facility is negative and the Market Seller 
during the same month has available at other of its generation facilities 
positive net output in an amount at least sufficient to offset fully such 
negative net output.  For purposes of this subsection (d), “net output” of a 
generation facility during any month means the facility’s gross energy 
output, less the Station Power requirements of such facility, during that 
month.  The determination of a generation facility’s or a Market Seller’s 
monthly net output under this subsection (d) will apply only to determine 
whether the Market Seller self-supplied Station Power during the month 
and will not affect the price of energy sold or consumed by the Market 
Seller at any bus during any Real-time Settlement Interval during the 
month.  For each Real-time Settlement Interval when a Market Seller has 
positive net output and delivers energy into the Transmission System, it 
will be paid the LMP at its bus for that Real-time Settlement Interval for 
all of the energy delivered.  Conversely, for each Real-time Settlement 
Interval when a Market Seller has negative net output and has received 
Station Power from the Transmission System, it will pay the LMP at its 
bus for that Real-time Settlement Interval for all of the energy consumed. 
 
(ii) Transmission Provider will determine the extent to which each affected 
Market Seller during the month self-supplied its Station Power 
requirements or obtained Station Power from third-party providers 
(including affiliates) and will incorporate that determination in its 
accounting and billing for the month.  In the event that a Market Seller 
self-supplies Station Power during any month in the manner described in 
subsection (1) of subsection (d)(i) above, Market Seller will not use, and 
will not incur any charges for, transmission service.  In the event, and to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 8 
the extent, that a Market Seller self-supplies Station Power during any 
month in the manner described in subsection (2) of subsection (d)(i) above 
(hereafter referred to as “remote self-supply of Station Power”), Market 
Seller shall use and pay for transmission service for the transmission of 
energy in an amount equal to the facility’s negative net output from 
Market Seller’s generation facility(ies) having positive net output.  Unless 
the Market Seller makes other arrangements with Transmission Provider 
in advance, such transmission service shall be provided under Tariff, Part 
II and shall be charged the hourly rate under Tariff, Schedule 8 for Non-
Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service with an election to pay 
congestion charges, provided, however, that no reservation shall be 
necessary for such transmission service and the terms and charges under 
Tariff, Schedule 1; Tariff, Schedule 1A;Tariff, Schedule 2; Tariff, 
Schedule 3; Tariff, Schedule 4; Tariff, Schedule 5; Tariff, Schedule 6; 
Tariff, Schedule 9; and Tariff, Schedule 10 shall not apply to such service.  
The amount of energy that a Market Seller transmits in conjunction with 
remote self-supply of Station Power will not be affected by any other 
sales, purchases, or transmission of capacity or energy by or for such 
Market Seller under any other provisions of the PJM Tariff. 
 
(iii) A Market Seller may self-supply Station Power from its generation 
facilities located outside of the PJM Region during any month only if such 
generation facilities in fact run during such month and Market Seller 
separately has reserved transmission service and scheduled delivery of the 
energy from such resource in advance into the PJM Region.  
 
(iv)  The Office of the Interconnection is not responsible for determining 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority-jurisdictional retail rates, 
and the monthly netting provision in section 1.7.10(d)(i) above does not 
determine whether a retail sale of station power has occurred in a month.  
Furthermore, notwithstanding any provision of subsection (d)(i) or (d)(ii) 
to the contrary, any net output determined for a Market Seller for Station 
Power purposes shall, as more fully set forth in the PJM manuals, take 
account of MWh values submitted to the Office of the Interconnection via 
its metering reporting systems by the Market Seller or the applicable 
Electric Distribution Company designated to make such submission, that 
reflect the Market Seller’s purchase of energy at retail to meet its Station 
Power needs. 
 
1.7.11 Emergencies. 
 
(a)  The Office of the Interconnection, with the assistance of the Members’ dispatchers as it 
may request, shall be responsible for monitoring the operation of the PJM Region, for declaring 
the existence of an Emergency, and for directing the operations of Market Participants as 
necessary to manage, alleviate or end an Emergency.  The standards, policies and procedures of 
the Office of the Interconnection for declaring the existence of an Emergency, including but not 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 9 
limited to a Minimum Generation Emergency, and for managing, alleviating or ending an 
Emergency, shall apply to all Members on a non-discriminatory basis.  Actions by the Office of 
the Interconnection and the Market Participants shall be carried out in accordance with this 
Agreement, the NERC Operating Policies, Applicable Regional Entity reliability principles and 
standards, Good Utility Practice, and the PJM Manuals.  A declaration that an Emergency exists 
or is likely to exist by the Office of the Interconnection shall be binding on all Market 
Participants until the Office of the Interconnection announces that the actual or threatened 
Emergency no longer exists.  Consistent with existing contracts, all Market Participants shall 
comply with all directions from the Office of the Interconnection for the purpose of managing, 
alleviating or ending an Emergency.  The Market Participants shall authorize the Office of the 
Interconnection and PJMSettlement to purchase or sell energy on their behalf to meet an 
Emergency, and otherwise to implement agreements with other Control Areas interconnected 
with the PJM Region for the mutual provision of service to meet an Emergency, in accordance 
with this Agreement.   
 
(b)  To the extent load must be shed to alleviate an Emergency in a Control Zone, the Office 
of the Interconnection shall, to the maximum extent practicable, direct the shedding of load 
within such Control Zone.  The Office of the Interconnection may shed load in one Control Zone 
to alleviate an Emergency in another Control Zone under its control only as necessary after 
having first shed load to the maximum extent practicable in the Control Zone experiencing the 
Emergency and only to the extent that PJM supports other control areas (not under its control) in 
those situations where load shedding would be necessary, such as to prevent isolation of facilities 
within the Eastern Interconnection, to prevent voltage collapse, or to restore system frequency 
following a system collapse; provided, however, that the Office of the Interconnection may not 
order a manual load dump in a Control Zone solely to address capacity deficiencies in another 
Control Zone.  This subsection shall be implemented consistent with the North American 
Electric Reliability Council and applicable reliability council standards. 
 
1.7.12 Fees and Charges. 
 
Each Market Participant, except for Special Members, shall pay all fees and charges of the 
Office of the Interconnection for operation of the PJM Interchange Energy Market as determined 
by and allocated to the Market Participant by the Office of the Interconnection, and for additional 
services they request from the LLC, PJMSettlement or the Office of the Interconnection that are 
not required for the operation of the LLC or the Office of the Interconnection, in accordance with 
Schedule 3. 
 
1.7.13 Relationship to the PJM Region.   
 
The PJM Interchange Energy Market operates within and subject to the requirements for the 
operation of the PJM Region.  
 
1.7.14 PJM Manuals. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall be responsible for maintaining, updating, and 
promulgating the PJM Manuals as they relate to the operation of the PJM Interchange Energy 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 10 
Market.  The PJM Manuals, as they relate to the operation of the PJM Interchange Energy 
Market, shall conform and comply with this Agreement, NERC operating policies, and 
Applicable Regional Entity reliability principles, guidelines and standards, and shall be designed 
to facilitate administration of an efficient energy market within industry reliability standards and 
the physical capabilities of the PJM Region. 
 
1.7.15 Corrective Action. 
 
Consistent with Good Utility Practice, the Office of the Interconnection shall be authorized to 
direct or coordinate corrective action, whether or not specified in the PJM Manuals, as necessary 
to alleviate unusual conditions that threaten the integrity or reliability of the PJM Region, or the 
regional power system. 
 
1.7.16 Recording. 
 
Subject to the requirements of applicable State or federal law, all voice communications with the 
Office of the Interconnection Control Center may be recorded by the Office of the 
Interconnection and any Market Participant communicating with the Office of the 
Interconnection Control Center, and each Market Participant hereby consents to such recording. 
 
1.7.17 [Reserved.] 
 
1.7.18 Regulation. 
 
(a) Regulation to meet the Regulation objective of each Regulation Zone shall be supplied 
from generation resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources located within 
the metered electrical boundaries of such Regulation Zone. Generating Market Buyers, and 
Market Sellers offering Regulation, shall comply with applicable standards and requirements for 
Regulation capability and dispatch specified in the PJM Manuals.  
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain and maintain for each Regulation Zone an 
amount of Regulation equal to the Regulation objective for such Regulation Zone as specified in 
the PJM Manuals.  
 
(c) The Regulation range of a generation unit or Economic Load Response Participant 
resource shall be at least twice the amount of Regulation assigned as described in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
(d) A resource capable of automatic energy dispatch that is also providing Regulation shall 
have its energy dispatch range reduced by at least twice the amount of the Regulation provided 
with consideration of the Regulation limits of that resource, as specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
(e) Qualified Regulation must satisfy the measurement and verification tests described in the 
PJM Manuals. 
 
1.7.19 Ramping. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 11 
 
A generator dispatched by the Office of the Interconnection pursuant to a control signal 
appropriate to increase or decrease the generator’s megawatt output level shall be able to change 
output at the ramping rate specified in the Offer Data submitted to the Office of the 
Interconnection for that generator.  Market Sellers must specify a ramping rate in the Offer Data 
that is an accurate representation of the resource’s capabilities given the confines of the PJM 
software. 
 
1.7.19A Synchronized Reserve. 
 
(a) Synchronized Reserve can be supplied from generation resources and/or Economic Load 
Response Participant resources located within the metered boundaries of the PJM Region.  A 
resource is not eligible to provide Synchronized Reserve if its entire output has been designated 
as emergency energy or if the resource is a nuclear, wind, or solar unit, or a Hybrid Resource 
comprised exclusively of wind and solar components, unless the Market Seller of such a resource 
has obtained written approval from the Office of the Interconnection to provide Synchronized 
Reserves.  To obtain such approval, the Market Seller must submit to the Office of the 
Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit a written request for exemption and provide 
documentation to support the resource’s ability to follow dispatch at the direction of the Office 
of the Interconnection, such as historical operating data showing voluntary response to reserve 
events and/or technical information about the physical operation of the resource.  The Office of 
the Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit shall review, in an open and transparent 
manner as between the Market Seller, the Market Monitoring Unit, and the Office of the 
Interconnection, the information and documentation in support of the request for approval to 
provide reserves.  No later than 30 Business Days from the date of data submittal supporting the 
request, the Office of the Interconnection shall determine, with the advice and input of the 
Marketing Monitoring Unit, whether the resource will be permitted to provide reserves and 
provide written notification to the Market Seller of such determination.  If the request is denied, 
the Office of the Interconnection shall include in the notice a written explanation for the denial.  
Generating Market Buyers, and Market Sellers offering Synchronized Reserve shall comply with 
applicable standards and requirements for Synchronized Reserve capability and dispatch 
specified in the PJM Manuals, the Operating Agreement and the PJM Tariff. 
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain and maintain for each Reserve Zone and 
Reserve Sub-zone an amount of Primary and Synchronized Reserve equal to the respective 
Primary Reserve Requirement and Synchronized Reserve Requirement objectives for such 
Reserve Zone and Reserve Sub-zone, as specified in the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the 
Interconnection shall create additional Reserve Zones or Reserve Sub-zones to maintain the 
required amount of reserves in a specific geographic area of the PJM Region as needed for 
system reliability.  Such needs may arise due to planned and unplanned system events that limit 
the Office of the Interconnection’s ability to deliver reserves to specific geographic area of the 
PJM Region where reserves are required.   
 
(c) The Synchronized Reserve capability of a generation resource and Economic Load 
Response Participant resource shall be the increase in energy output or load reduction achievable 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 12 
by the generation resource and Economic Load Response Participant resource within a 
continuous 10-minute period. 
 
1.7.19A.01 Non-Synchronized Reserve. 
 
(a) Non-Synchronized Reserve shall be supplied from generation resources located within 
the metered boundaries of the PJM Region.  A resource is not eligible to provide Non-
Synchronized Reserve if (i) its entire output has been designated as emergency energy, (ii) it is 
not available to provide energy, or (iii) it is a nuclear, wind, or solar unit, an ESR Model 
Participant, or a Hybrid Resource, unless the Market Seller of such a resource has obtained 
written approval from the Office of the Interconnection to provide Non-Synchronized Reserves.  
To obtain such approval, the Market Seller must submit to the Office of the Interconnection and 
the Market Monitoring Unit a written request for exemption and provide documentation to 
support the resource’s ability to follow dispatch at the direction of the Office of the 
Interconnection, such as historical operating data showing voluntary response to reserve events 
and/or technical information about the physical operation of the resource.  The Office of the 
Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit shall review, in an open and transparent manner 
as between the Market Seller, the Market Monitoring Unit, and the Office of the Interconnection, 
the information and documentation in support of the request for approval to provide reserves.  
No later than 30 Business Days from the date of data submittal supporting the request, the Office 
of the Interconnection shall determine, with the advice and input of the Marketing Monitoring 
Unit, whether the resource will be permitted to provide reserves and provide written notification 
to the Market Seller of such determination.  If the request is denied, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall include in the notice a written explanation for the denial.  All other non-
emergency generation capacity resources available to provide energy shall also be available to 
provide Non-Synchronized Reserve, as applicable to the capacity resource’s capability to provide 
these services.  Generating Market Buyers and Market Sellers offering Non-Synchronized 
Reserve shall comply with applicable standards and requirements for Non-Synchronized Reserve 
capability and dispatch specified in the PJM Manuals, the Operating Agreement and the PJM 
Tariff. 
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain and maintain for each Reserve Zone and 
Reserve Sub-zone an amount of Non-Synchronized Reserve such that the sum of the 
Synchronized Reserve and Non-Synchronized Reserve meets the Primary Reserve Requirement 
for such Reserve Zone and Reserve Sub-zone, as specified in the PJM Manuals.  The Office of 
the Interconnection shall create additional Reserve Zones or Reserve Sub-zones to maintain the 
required amount of reserves in a specific geographic area of the PJM Region as needed for 
system reliability.  Such needs may arise due to planned and unplanned system events that limit 
the Office of the Interconnection’s ability to deliver reserves to specific geographic area of the 
PJM Region where reserves are required.   
 
(c) The Non-Synchronized Reserve capability of a generation resource shall be the increase 
in energy output achievable by the generation resource within a continuous 10-minute period 
provided that the resource is not synchronized to the system at the initiation of the response. 
 
1.7.19A.02 Secondary Reserve.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 13 
 
(a)  Secondary Reserve can be supplied from synchronized and non-synchronized generation 
resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources located within the metered 
boundaries of the PJM Region, as specified in the PJM Manuals. A resource is not eligible to 
provide Secondary Reserve if (i) its entire output has been designated as emergency energy, (ii) 
it is not available to provide energy, or (iii) it is a nuclear, wind, or solar unit, or a Hybrid 
Resource comprised exclusively of wind and solar components, unless the Market Seller of such 
a resource has obtained written approval from the Office of the Interconnection to provide 
Secondary Reserves.  To obtain such approval, the Market Seller must submit to the Office of the 
Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit a written request for exemption and provide 
documentation to support the resource’s ability to follow dispatch at the direction of the Office 
of the Interconnection, such as historical operating data showing voluntary response to reserve 
events and/or technical information about the physical operation of the resource.  The Office of 
the Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit shall review, in an open and transparent 
manner as between the Market Seller, the Market Monitoring Unit, and the Office of the 
Interconnection, the information and documentation in support of the request for approval to 
provide reserves.  No later than 30 Business Days from the date of data submittal supporting the 
request, the Office of the Interconnection shall determine, with the advice and input of the 
Marketing Monitoring Unit, whether the resource will be permitted to provide reserves and 
provide written notification to the Market Seller of such determination.  If the request is denied, 
the Office of the Interconnection shall include in the notice a written explanation for the denial.  
Generating Market Buyers and Market Sellers offering Secondary Reserve shall comply with 
applicable standards and requirements for Secondary Reserve capability and dispatch specified 
in the PJM Manuals, the Operating Agreement and the PJM Tariff.  
 
(b)  The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain and maintain for each Reserve Zone and 
Reserve Sub-zone, as applicable, an amount of Secondary Reserve such that the sum of the 
Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve and Secondary Reserve meets the respective 
30-minute Reserve Requirement for each such Reserve Zone and Reserve Sub-zone, as 
applicable, and as specified in the PJM Manuals. In accordance with the PJM Manuals, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall create additional Reserve Zones or Reserve Sub-zones to 
maintain the 30-minute Reserve Requirement in a specific geographic area of the PJM Region as 
needed for system reliability. Such needs may arise due to planned and unplanned system events 
that limit the Office of the Interconnection’s ability to deliver reserves to specific geographic 
area of the PJM Region where reserves are required.  
 
(c)  The Secondary Reserve capability of a generation resource and Economic Load Response 
Participant resource shall be the increase in energy output or load reduction achievable by the 
generation resource and Economic Load Response Participant resource within a continuous 30-
minute period, minus the increase in energy output or load reduction achievable within a 
continuous 10-minute period. 
 
1.7.19B Bilateral Transactions Regarding Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-
Synchronized Reserve, and Secondary Reserve. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 14 
(a) In addition to transactions in the Regulation market, Synchronized Reserve market, Non- 
Synchronized Reserve market and Secondary Reserve market, Market Participants may enter 
into bilateral contracts for the purchase or sale of Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-
Synchronized Reserve or Secondary Reserve to or from each other or any other entity.  Such 
bilateral contracts shall be for the physical transfer of Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-
Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve to or from a Market Participant and shall be 
reported to and coordinated with the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with this 
Schedule and pursuant to the LLC’s rules relating to its Markets Gateway tools. 
 
(b) For purposes of clarity, with respect to all bilateral contracts for the physical transfer of 
Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve to a 
Market Participant in the PJM Region, title to the product that is the subject of the bilateral 
contract shall pass to the buyer at the source specified for the bilateral contract, and any further 
transactions associated with such products or further sale of such Regulation, Synchronized 
Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve in the markets for Regulation, 
Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve, respectively, shall be 
transacted by the buyer under the bilateral contract.  In no event shall the purchase and sale of 
Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve between 
Market Participants under a bilateral contract constitute a transaction in PJM’s markets for 
Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve, or 
otherwise be construed to define PJMSettlement as a contracting party to any bilateral 
transactions between Market Participants. 
 
(c) Market Participants that are parties to bilateral contracts for the purchase and sale and 
physical transfer of Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, or 
Secondary Reserve reported to and coordinated with the Office of the Interconnection under this 
Schedule shall use all reasonable efforts, consistent with Good Utility Practice, to limit the 
amounts of such reported transactions to amounts reflecting the expected requirements for 
Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve of the 
buyer pursuant to such bilateral contracts.   
 
(d) All payments and related charges for the Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-
Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve associated with a bilateral contract shall be 
arranged between the parties to the bilateral contract and shall not be billed or settled by the 
Office of the Interconnection.  The LLC, PJMSettlement, and the Members will not assume 
financial responsibility for the failure of a party to perform obligations owed to the other party 
under a bilateral contract reported and coordinated with the Office of the Interconnection under 
this Schedule. 
 
(e) A buyer under a bilateral contract shall guarantee and indemnify the LLC, 
PJMSettlement, and the Members for the costs of any purchases by the seller under the bilateral 
contract in the markets for Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, or 
Secondary Reserve used to meet the bilateral contract seller’s obligation to deliver Regulation, 
Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve under the bilateral 
contract and for which payment is not made to PJMSettlement by the seller under the bilateral 
contract, as determined by the Office of the Interconnection.  Upon any default in obligations to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 15 
the LLC or PJMSettlement by a Market Participant, the Office of the Interconnection shall (i) not 
accept any new Markets Gateway reporting by the Market Participant and (ii) terminate all of the 
Market Participant’s reporting of Markets Gateway schedules associated with its bilateral 
contracts previously reported to the Office of the Interconnection for all days where delivery has 
not yet occurred.  All claims regarding a buyer’s default to a seller under a bilateral contract shall 
be resolved solely between the buyer and the seller.  In such circumstances, the seller may 
instruct the Office of the Interconnection to terminate all of the reported Markets Gateway 
schedules associated with bilateral contracts between buyer and seller previously reported to the 
Office of the Interconnection. 
 
(f) Market Participants shall purchase Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized 
Reserve, or Secondary Reserve from PJM’s markets for Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-
Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve, in quantities sufficient to complete the delivery or 
receipt obligations of a bilateral contract that has been curtailed or interrupted for any reason, 
with respect to all bilateral transactions that contemplate the physical transfer of Regulation, 
Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve to or from a Market 
Participant.  
 
1.7.20 Communication and Operating Requirements. 
 
(a) Market Participants.  Each Market Participant shall have, or shall arrange to have, its 
transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market subject to control by a Market Operations 
Center, with staffing and communications systems capable of real-time communication with the 
Office of the Interconnection during normal and Emergency conditions and of control of the 
Market Participant’s relevant load or facilities sufficient to meet the requirements of the Market 
Participant’s transactions with the PJM Interchange Energy Market, including but not limited to 
the following requirements as applicable, and as may be further described in the PJM Manuals. 
 
(b) Market Sellers selling from generation resources and/or Economic Load Response 
Participant resources within the PJM Region shall:  report to the Office of the Interconnection 
sources of energy and Economic Load Response Participant resources available for operation; 
supply to the Office of the Interconnection all applicable Offer Data; report to the Office of the 
Interconnection generation resources and Economic Load Response Participant resources that are 
self-scheduled; with respect to generation resources, report to the Office of the Interconnection 
bilateral sales transactions to buyers not within the PJM Region; confirm to the Office of the 
Interconnection bilateral sales to Market Buyers within the PJM Region; respond to the Office of 
the Interconnection’s directives to start, shutdown or change output levels of generation units, or 
change scheduled voltages or reactive output levels of generation units, or reduce load from 
Economic Load Response Participant resources; continuously maintain all Offer Data concurrent 
with on-line operating information; and ensure that, where so equipped, generating equipment 
and Economic Load Response Participant resources are operated with control equipment 
functioning as specified in the PJM Manuals.  
 
(c) Market Sellers selling from generation resources outside the PJM Region shall:  provide 
to the Office of the Interconnection all applicable Offer Data, including offers specifying 
amounts of energy available, hours of availability and prices of energy and other services; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 16 
respond to Office of the Interconnection directives to schedule delivery or change delivery 
schedules; and communicate delivery schedules to the Market Seller’s Control Area. 
 
(d) Market Participants that are Load Serving Entities or purchasing on behalf of Load 
Serving Entities shall:  respond to Office of the Interconnection directives for load management 
steps; report to the Office of the Interconnection Generation Capacity Resources to satisfy 
capacity obligations that are available for pool operation; report to the Office of the 
Interconnection all bilateral purchase transactions; respond to other Office of the Interconnection 
directives such as those required during Emergency operation. 
 
(e) Market Participants that are not Load Serving Entities or purchasing on behalf of Load 
Serving Entities shall:  provide to the Office of the Interconnection requests to purchase specified 
amounts of energy for each hour of the Operating Day during which it intends to purchase from 
the PJM Interchange Energy Market, along with Dispatch Rate levels above which it does not 
desire to purchase; respond to other Office of the Interconnection directives such as those 
required during Emergency operation. 
 
(f) Economic Load Response Participants are responsible for maintaining demand reduction 
information, including the amount and price at which demand may be reduced.  The Economic 
Load Response Participant shall provide this information to the Office of the Interconnection by 
posting it on the Load Response Program Registration link of the PJM website as required by the 
PJM Manuals.  The Economic Load Response Participant shall notify the Office of the 
Interconnection of a demand reduction concurrent with, or prior to, the beginning of such 
demand reduction in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  In the event that an Economic Load 
Response Participant chooses to measure load reductions using a Customer Baseline Load, the 
Economic Load Response Participant shall inform the Office of the Interconnection of a change 
in its operations or the operations of the end-use customer that would affect a relevant Customer 
Baseline Load as required by the PJM Manuals. 
 
(g) PRD Providers shall be responsible for automation and supervisory control equipment 
that satisfy the criteria set forth in the RAA to ensure automated reductions to their Price 
Responsive Demand in response to price in accordance with their PRD Curves submitted to the 
Office of the Interconnection. 
 
(h) Market Participants engaging in Coordinated External Transactions shall provide to the 
Office of the Interconnection the information required to be specified in a CTS Interface Bid, in 
accordance with the procedures of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.13 and the parallel 
provisions of Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.13. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.8 Selection, Scheduling and Dispatch 
Effective Date: 6/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 1 
1.8 Selection, Scheduling and Dispatch Procedure Adjustment Process. 
 
1.8.1 PJM Dispute Resolution Agreement. 
 
Subject to the condition specified below, any Member adversely affected by a decision of the 
Office of the Interconnection with respect to the operation of the PJM Interchange Energy 
Market, including the qualification of an entity to participate in that market as a buyer or seller, 
may seek such relief as may be appropriate under the PJM Dispute Resolution Procedures on the 
grounds that such decision does not have an adequate basis in fact or does not conform to the 
requirements of this Agreement. 
 
1.8.2 Market or Control Area Hourly Operational Disputes. 
 
(a) Market Participants shall comply with all determinations of the Office of the 
Interconnection on the selection, scheduling or dispatch of resources in the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market, or to meet the operational requirements of the PJM Region.  Complaints arising 
from or relating to such determinations shall be brought to the attention of the Office of the 
Interconnection not later than the end of the fifth Business Day after the end of the Operating 
Day to which the selection or scheduling relates, or in which the scheduling or dispatch took 
place, and shall include, if practicable, a proposed resolution of the complaint.  Upon receiving 
notification of the dispute, the Office of the Interconnection and the Market Participant raising 
the dispute shall exert their best efforts to obtain and retain all data and other information relating 
to the matter in dispute, and to notify other Market Participants that are likely to be affected by 
the proposed resolution.  Subject to confidentiality or other non-disclosure requirements, 
representatives of the Office of the Interconnection, the Market Participant raising the dispute, 
and other interested Market Participants, shall meet within three Business Days of the foregoing 
notification, or at such other or further times as the Office of the Interconnection and the Market 
Participants may agree, to review the relevant facts, and to seek agreement on a resolution of the 
dispute. 
 
(b) If the Office of the Interconnection determines that the matter in dispute discloses a 
defect in operating policies, practices or procedures subject to the discretion of the Office of the 
Interconnection, the Office of the Interconnection shall implement such changes as it deems 
appropriate and shall so notify the Members Committee.  Alternatively, the Office of the 
Interconnection may notify the Members Committee of a proposed change and solicit the 
comments or other input of the Members. 
 
(c) If  either  the  Office of  the Interconnection, the Market Participant raising the dispute, or 
another affected Market Participant believes that the matter in dispute has not been adequately 
resolved, or discloses a need for changes in standards or policies established in or pursuant to the 
Operating Agreement, any of the foregoing parties may make a written request for review of the 
matter by the Members Committee, and shall include with the request the forwarding party’s 
recommendation and such data or information (subject to confidentiality or other non-disclosure 
requirements) as would enable the Members Committee to assess the matter and the 
recommendation.  The Members Committee shall take such action on the recommendation as it 
shall deem appropriate. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.8 Selection, Scheduling and Dispatch 
Effective Date: 6/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 2 
 
(d) Subject to the right of a Market Participant to obtain correction of accounting or billing 
errors, the LLC or a Market Participant shall not be entitled to actual, compensatory, 
consequential or punitive damages, opportunity costs, or other form of reimbursement from the 
LLC or any other Market Participant for any loss, liability or claim, including any claim for lost 
profits, incurred as a result of a mistake, error or other fault by the Office of the Interconnection 
in the selection, scheduling or dispatch of resources. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.9 Prescheduling 
Effective Date: 11/1/2017 - Docket #: ER16-372-002 - Page 1 
1.9 Prescheduling.   
 
The following procedures and principles shall govern the prescheduling activities necessary to 
plan for the reliable operation of the PJM Region and for the efficient operation of the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market. 
 
1.9.1 Outage Scheduling.  
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall be responsible for coordinating and approving requests 
for outages of generation and transmission facilities as necessary for the reliable operation of the 
PJM Region, in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the Interconnection shall 
maintain records of outages and outage requests of these facilities. 
 
1.9.2  Planned Outages. 
 
(a) A Generator Planned Outage shall be included in Generator Planned Outage schedules 
established prior to the scheduled start date for the outage, in accordance with standards and 
procedures specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall conduct Generator Planned Outage scheduling for 
Generation Capacity Resources in accordance with the Reliability Assurance Agreement and the 
PJM Manuals and in consultation with the Market Sellers owning or controlling the output of 
such resources.  A Market Seller shall not be expected to submit offers for the sale of energy or 
other services, or to satisfy delivery obligations, from all or part of a generation resource 
undergoing an approved Generator Planned Outage.  If the Office of the Interconnection 
determines that approval of a Generator Planned Outage would significantly affect the reliable 
operation of the PJM Region, the Office of the Interconnection may withhold approval or 
withdraw a prior approval.  Approval of a Generator Planned Outage of a Generation Capacity 
Resource shall be withheld or withdrawn only as necessary to ensure the adequacy of reserves or 
the reliability of the PJM Region in connection with anticipated implementation or avoidance of 
Emergency procedures.  The Market Seller shall provide the Office of the Interconnection with 
an estimate of the amount of time it needs to return to service any Generation Capacity Resource 
on Generator Planned Outage that is already underway.  If the Office of the Interconnection 
withholds or withdraws its approval of a Generator Planned Outage, it shall coordinate with the 
Market Seller owning or controlling the resource to reschedule the Generator Planned Outage at 
the earliest practical time.  The Office of the Interconnection shall if possible propose alternative 
schedules with the intent of minimizing the economic impact on the Market Seller of a Generator 
Planned Outage.  
 
(c) The Office of the Interconnection shall conduct Transmission Planned Outage scheduling 
in accordance with procedures specified in the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement 
and the PJM Manuals, and in accordance with the following procedures:  
 
(i) Transmission Owners shall use reasonable efforts to submit Transmission Planned 
Outage schedules one year in advance but by no later than the first of the month 
six months in advance of the requested start date for all outages that are expected 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.9 Prescheduling 
Effective Date: 11/1/2017 - Docket #: ER16-372-002 - Page 2 
to exceed five working days duration, with regular (at least monthly) updates as 
new information becomes available. 
 
(ii) If notice of a Transmission Planned Outage is not provided in accordance with the 
requirements in subsection (i) above, and if such outage is determined by the 
Office of the Interconnection to have the potential to cause significant system 
impacts, including but not limited to reliability impacts and transmission system 
congestion, then the Office of the Interconnection may require the Transmission 
Owner to implement an alternative outage schedule to reduce or avoid such 
impacts.  The Office of the Interconnection may, however, if requested by the 
Transmission Owner, dispatch generation or reductions in demand in order to 
avoid implementing an alternative outage schedule for its Transmission Facilities 
to extent consistent with its obligations under the Operating Agreement or PJM 
Tariff and provided the Office of the Interconnection determines that such 
dispatch would not adversely affect reliability in the PJM Region or otherwise not 
be in accordance with Good Utility Practices.  A Transmission Owner that makes 
such a dispatch request pursuant to this section shall be responsible for all 
generation and other costs resulting from its request that would not have been 
incurred had the Office of the Interconnection implemented an alternative outage 
schedule to reduce or avoid reliability and congestion impacts.  The Office of the 
Interconnection may, at the Transmission Owner’s consent, directly assign to the 
Transmission Owner all generation and other costs resulting from the Office of 
the Interconnection’s dispatch of generation or reductions in demand arising from 
outages associated with RTEP upgrades not submitted consistent with the 
timelines set forth in the Tariff and the PJM Operating Agreement and where such 
outage is required to meet the reliability-based in-service date of the RTEP 
upgrade project.   
 
(iii) Transmission Owners shall submit notice of all Transmission Planned Outages to 
the Office of the Interconnection by the first day of the month preceding the 
month the outage will commence, with updates as new information becomes 
available. 
 
(iv) If notice of a Transmission Planned Outage is not provided by the first day of the 
month preceding the month the outage will commence, and if such outage is 
determined by the Office of the Interconnection to have the potential to cause 
significant system impacts, including but not limited to reliability impacts and 
transmission system congestion, then the Office of the Interconnection may 
require the Transmission Owner to implement an alternative outage schedule to 
reduce or avoid such impacts.  The Office of the Interconnection shall perform 
this analysis and notify the Transmission Owner in a timely manner if it will 
require rescheduling of the outage.  The Office of the Interconnection may, 
however, if requested by the Transmission Owner, dispatch generation or 
reductions in demand in order to avoid implementing an alternative outage 
schedule for its Transmission Facilities to extent consistent with its obligations 
under the Operating Agreement or PJM Tariff and provided the Office of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.9 Prescheduling 
Effective Date: 11/1/2017 - Docket #: ER16-372-002 - Page 3 
Interconnection determines that such dispatch would not adversely affect 
reliability in the PJM Region or otherwise not be in accordance with Good Utility 
Practices.  A Transmission Owner that makes such a dispatch request pursuant to 
this section shall be responsible for all generation and other costs resulting from 
its request that would not have been incurred had the Office of the 
Interconnection implemented an alternative outage schedule to reduce or avoid 
reliability and congestion impacts.  The Office of the Interconnection may, at the 
Transmission Owner’s consent, directly assign to the Transmission Owner all 
generation and other costs resulting from the Office of the Interconnection’s 
dispatch of generation or reductions in demand arising from outages associated 
with RTEP upgrades not submitted consistent with the timelines set forth in the 
Tariff and the PJM Operating Agreement and where such outage is required to 
meet the reliability-based in-service date of the RTEP upgrade project.  
 
(v) The Office of the Interconnection reserves the right to approve, deny, or 
reschedule any outage deemed necessary to ensure reliable system operations on a 
case by case basis regardless of duration or date of submission. 
 
(vi) The Office of the Interconnection shall post notice of Transmission Planned 
Outages on OASIS upon receipt of such notice from the Transmission Owner; 
provided, however, that the Office of the Interconnection shall not post on OASIS 
notice of any component of a  Transmission Planned Outage to the extent such 
component shall directly reveal a generator outage.  In such cases, the 
Transmission Owner, in addition to providing notice to the Office of the 
Interconnection as required above, concurrently shall inform the affected 
Generation Owner of such outage, limiting such communication to that necessary 
to describe the outage and to coordinate with the Generation Owner on matters of 
safety to persons, facilities, and equipment.  The Transmission Owner shall not 
notify any other Market Participant of such outage and shall arrange any other 
necessary coordination through the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
 In addition, if the Office of the Interconnection determines that transmission maintenance 
schedules proposed by one or more Members would significantly affect the efficient and reliable 
operation of the PJM Region, the Office of the Interconnection may establish alternative 
schedules, but such alternative shall minimize the economic impact on the Member or Members 
whose maintenance schedules the Office of the Interconnection proposes to modify. 
 
(d) The Office of the Interconnection shall coordinate resolution of outage or other planning 
conflicts that may give rise to unreliable system conditions. The Members shall comply with all 
maintenance schedules established by the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
1.9.3 Generator Maintenance Outages. 
 
(a)  A Generator Maintenance Outage may only be scheduled if approved by the Office of the 
Interconnection prior to the requested start date for the outage, in accordance with subsection (b) 
hereof and the standards and procedures specified in the PJM Manuals. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.9 Prescheduling 
Effective Date: 11/1/2017 - Docket #: ER16-372-002 - Page 4 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall schedule Generator Maintenance Outages for 
Generation Capacity Resources in accordance with the procedures specified in the PJM Manuals 
and in consultation with the Market Seller owning or controlling the output of such resources.  
The Office of the Interconnection shall approve requests for Generator Maintenance Outages for 
such a Generation Capacity Resource unless the outage would threaten the adequacy of reserves 
in, or the reliability of, the PJM Region.  A Market Participant shall not be expected to submit 
offers for the sale of energy or other services, or to satisfy delivery obligations, from a generation 
resource undergoing an approved full or partial Generator Maintenance Outage.  If the Office of 
the Interconnection determines that approval of a Generator Maintenance Outage would 
significantly affect the reliable operation of the PJM Region, the Office of the Interconnection 
may withhold approval,  withdraw a prior approval, or rescind a prior approval of a Generator 
Maintenance Outage that is already underway.  Approval of a Generator Maintenance Outage of 
a Generation Capacity Resource shall be withheld or withdrawn only as necessary to ensure the 
adequacy of reserves or the reliability of the PJM Region in connection with anticipated 
implementation or avoidance of Emergency procedures. In addition, if the Office of the 
Interconnection determines that it must rescind its approval of a Generator Maintenance Outage 
that is already underway in order to preserve the reliable operation of the PJM Region, the Office 
of the Interconnection will provide the Market Seller of the Generation Capacity Resource at 
least 72 hours’ notice thereof. The Market Seller shall be required to make the Generation 
Capacity Resource available for normal operation within 72 hours of such notice.  If the 
generator is not made available for normal operation by 72 hours after the notice of the rescission 
of the approval of the Generator Maintenance Outage, for the remaining time the resource 
continues on the outage it shall be deemed to have experienced a Generator Forced Outage.  If 
the Office of the Interconnection withholds, withdraws or rescinds approval of a Generator 
Maintenance Outage, it shall coordinate with the Market Seller owning or controlling the 
resource to reschedule the Generator Maintenance Outage at the earliest practical time. The 
Office of the Interconnection shall, if possible, propose alternative schedules with the intent of 
minimizing the economic impact on the Market Seller of a Generator Maintenance Outage. 
 
1.9.4 Forced Outages. 
 
(a) Each Market Seller that owns or controls a pool-scheduled resource, or Generation 
Capacity Resource whether or not pool-scheduled, shall:  (i) advise the Office of the 
Interconnection of a Generator Forced Outage suffered or anticipated to be suffered by any such 
resource as promptly as possible; (ii) provide the Office of the Interconnection with the expected 
date and time that the resource will be made available; and (iii) make a record of the events and 
circumstances giving rise to the Generator Forced Outage.  A Market Seller shall not be expected 
to submit offers for the sale of energy or other services, or satisfy delivery obligations, from a 
generation resource undergoing a Generator Forced Outage.  A Generation Capacity Resource 
committed to PJM loads through an RPM Auction, FRR Capacity Plan, or by designation as a 
replacement resource under Attachment DD of the PJM Tariff, that does not deliver all or part of 
its scheduled energy shall be deemed to have experienced a Generator Forced Outage with 
respect to such undelivered energy, in accordance with standards and procedures for full and 
partial Generator Forced Outages specified in the Reliability Assurance Agreement, and the PJM 
Manuals. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.9 Prescheduling 
Effective Date: 11/1/2017 - Docket #: ER16-372-002 - Page 5 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall receive notification of Forced Transmission 
Outages, and information on the return to service, of Transmission Facilities in the PJM Region 
in accordance with standards and procedures specified in, as applicable, the Consolidated 
Transmission Owners Agreement and the PJM Manuals.  
 
1.9.4A Transmission Outage Acceleration. 
 
(a) Planned Transmission Outages and Forced Transmission Outages otherwise scheduled 
pursuant to sections 1.9.2 and 1.9.4 respectively of this Schedule may be accelerated or 
rescheduled at the request of a Generation Owner or other Market Participant in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of this section 1.9.4A and the PJM Manuals. 
 
(b) Transmission Outages Requiring Coordination With A Specific Generation Owner. 
 
(i) Receipt of Acceleration Request.  Prior to a scheduled Planned 
Transmission Outage associated with the interconnection of a generating 
unit to the Transmission System, the affected Generation Owner may 
request that the outage be accelerated or rescheduled.  Such Acceleration 
Request shall be submitted to the Office of the Interconnection in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
 
(ii) Determination to Accommodate Acceleration Request.  Upon receipt of an 
Acceleration Request, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify the 
affected Transmission Owner of such Acceleration Request.  The affected 
Transmission Owner shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether to 
accelerate or reschedule a transmission outage.  In making this 
determination, the affected Transmission Owner shall follow Good Utility 
Practice, applicable Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
standards, and applicable company safety standards, and shall consider 
any requirements contained in pertinent collective bargaining agreements.  
In the event that the affected Transmission Owner determines to accelerate 
or reschedule a transmission outage, it shall provide the Office of the 
Interconnection, within the time set forth in the PJM Manuals, an estimate 
of the cost to accelerate or reschedule the transmission outage and the 
revised schedule for the transmission outage (“Acceleration Estimate”).  
 
(iii) Provision of Acceleration Estimate.  Upon receipt of the Acceleration 
Estimate and verification that the Generation Owner has met reasonable 
creditworthiness standards established by the Office of the 
Interconnection, the Office of the Interconnection shall provide the 
Generation Owner with the Acceleration Estimate.  In the event that the 
Generation Owner does not meet the creditworthiness standard, the Office 
of the Interconnection shall not provide the Acceleration Estimate and the 
transmission outage shall not be accelerated or rescheduled.  Upon receipt 
of the Acceleration Estimate, the Generation Owner, within the time 
period specified in the PJM Manuals, shall notify the Office of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.9 Prescheduling 
Effective Date: 11/1/2017 - Docket #: ER16-372-002 - Page 6 
Interconnection as to whether it desires to accelerate or reschedule the 
transmission outage pursuant to the terms of the Acceleration Estimate.   
 
(iv) Cost Responsibility.  In the event the Generation Owner notifies the Office 
of the Interconnection that it desires to proceed with the acceleration or 
rescheduling of the transmission outage pursuant to section 1.9.4A(a)(iii), 
the Generation Owner shall be solely responsible for actual costs incurred 
by the affected Transmission Owner for the acceleration or rescheduling 
of the transmission outage.  The Generation Owner’s cost responsibility is 
not relieved, if, despite the good faith efforts of the Transmission Owner, 
the amount of costs set forth in the Acceleration Estimate is exceeded by 
less than 20 percent, or the Transmission Owner is unable successfully to 
complete the outage pursuant to the revised schedule set forth in the 
Acceleration Estimate.  Prior to incurring costs exceeding 120 percent of 
the cost estimate set forth in the Acceleration Estimate, the affected 
Transmission Owner shall advise the Office of the Interconnection of such 
increase, and the Office of the Interconnection then shall notify the 
Generation Owner. After receipt of such notification, within the time 
period set forth in the PJM Manuals, the Generation Owner shall inform 
the Office of the Interconnection whether it desires to continue with the 
revised transmission outage schedule and pay the additional costs.  The 
Office of the Interconnection shall notify the affected Transmission Owner 
of the Generation Owner’s decision.  In the event the Generation Owner 
desires not to proceed, the transmission outage shall occur according to 
normal work practices and the Generation Owner shall be responsible for 
all incurred costs and committed costs and obligations of the affected 
Transmission Owner for the acceleration or rescheduling of the 
transmission outage as of the date that the affected Transmission Owner 