[SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7-FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT - Part 2 of 2]

differential between the source and sink nodes of the corresponding FTR obligation in each 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7 - FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction 
Revenues. 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 11 
prompt-month FTR auction that occurs from the effective date of the Residual Auction Revenue 
Rights through the end of the relevant Planning Period. 
 
7.4.4 Calculation of Auction Revenue Right Credits. 
 
(a) Each day, the total of all the daily Target Allocations determined as specified above in 
Section 7.4.3 plus any additional Auction Revenue Rights Target Allocations applicable for that 
day shall be compared to the total revenues of all applicable monthly Financial Transmission 
Rights auction(s) (divided by the number of days in the month) plus the total revenues of the 
annual Financial Transmission Rights auction (divided by the number of days in the Planning 
Period). If the total of the Target Allocations is less than the total auction revenues, the Auction 
Revenue Right Credit for each entity holding an Auction Revenue Right shall be equal to its 
Target Allocation.  All remaining funds shall be distributed as Excess Congestion Charges 
pursuant to Section 5.2.6. 
 
(b) If the total of the Target Allocations is greater than the total auction revenues, each holder 
of Auction Revenue Rights shall be assigned a share of the total auction revenues in proportion 
to its Auction Revenue Rights Target Allocations for Auction Revenue Rights which have a 
positive Target Allocation value. Auction Revenue Rights which have a negative Target 
Allocation value are assigned the full Target Allocation value as a negative Auction Revenue 
Right Credit. 
 
(c) At the end of a Planning Period, if all Auction Revenue Right holders did not receive 
Auction Revenue Right Credits equal to their Target Allocations, PJMSettlement shall assess a 
charge equal to the difference between the Auction Revenue Right Credit Target Allocations for 
all revenue deficient Auction Revenue Rights and the actual Auction Revenue Right Credits 
allocated to those Auction Revenue Right holders.  The aggregate charge for a Planning Period 
assessed pursuant to this section, if any, shall be added to the aggregate charge for a Planning 
Period assessed pursuant to section 5.2.5(c) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement and collected 
pursuant to section 5.2.5(c) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement and distributed to the Auction 
Revenue Right holders that did not receive Auction Revenue Right Credits equal to their Target 
Allocation. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7 - FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 7.5 Simultaneous Feasibility 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 1 
7.5 Simultaneous Feasibility. 
 
(a) The Office of the Interconnection shall make the simultaneous feasibility determinations 
specified herein using appropriate powerflow models of contingency-constrained dispatch.  
Simultaneous feasibility determinations shall take into account outages of both individual 
generation units and transmission facilities and shall be based on reasonable assumptions about 
the configuration and availability of transmission capability during the period covered by the 
auction that are not inconsistent with the determination of the deliverability of Generation 
Capacity Resources under the Reliability Assurance Agreement.  The goal of the simultaneous 
feasibility determination shall be to ensure that there are sufficient revenues from Day-ahead 
Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges to satisfy all Financial Transmission Rights 
Obligations for the auction period under expected conditions and to ensure that there are 
sufficient revenues from the annual Financial Transmission Right Auction to satisfy all Auction 
Revenue Rights Obligations.  To ensure revenue sufficiency, the powerflow model used for 
simultaneous feasibility determinations is a markets model that uses flows caused by sources and 
sinks of requested Auction Revenue Rights (including Incremental Auction Revenue Rights) or 
Financial Transmission Rights, as well as market limits (as described in section (b) below) to 
determine the capability available to accommodate financial rights that are simultaneously 
feasible.  The markets model differs from both an operations model, which uses physical 
generators or load, and a planning model, which uses expected physical generators or load. 
 
(b) Simultaneous feasibility determinations pursuant to this section utilize applicable market 
limits.  Market limits may differ from physical facility ratings to reflect expected market 
capability and to align expected Financial Transmission Rights total target allocations with 
expected congestion, and to ensure sufficient revenues are collected from the Day-ahead Energy 
Market Transmission Congestion Charges to satisfy all Financial Transmission Rights 
obligations.  To account for historical market impacts, market limits may reflect (without 
limitation) such factors as requested and awarded Auction Revenue Rights, Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights and Financial Transmission Rights, uncompensated powerflow, external 
flowgate entitlements or limits, transfer limits of the type appropriate for reactive interfaces, 
operational considerations, voltage limitations and/or closed loop interfaces.  Market limits also 
are based on reasonable assumptions about the configuration and availability of transmission 
capability during the study period, including (without limitation) scheduled or expected 
transmission outages.  The market limits are applied to facilities modeled in an Auction Revenue 
Rights allocation, Financial Transmission Rights auction or Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
study and may result in operative constraints that establish different limits than physical (e.g., 
thermal or voltage) ratings.  As used here, an operative constraint results when a market limit 
binds in the powerflow model and constrains the grant of Auction Revenue Rights, Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights or Financial Transmission Rights. 
 
(c) On an annual basis the Office of the Interconnection shall conduct a simultaneous 
feasibility test for stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights, which shall assess the simultaneous 
feasibility for each year remaining in the term of the right(s).  This test shall be based on the 
Auction Revenue Rights required to meet sixty percent (60%) of peak load in each Zone 
requirements.  The Office of the Interconnection shall apply a zonal load growth rate to the 
simultaneous feasibility test for the ten year term of the stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7 - FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 7.5 Simultaneous Feasibility 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 2 
reflect load growth as estimated by the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
(d)  Simultaneous feasibility tests for new stage 1 resource requests made pursuant to Section 
7.6 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement shall ensure that the request for a new base resource does 
not increase the megawatt flow on facilities binding in the current Auction Revenue Rights 
allocation or in future stage 1A allocations and does not cause megawatt flow to exceed 
applicable ratings on any other facilities in either set of conditions.  The most limiting set of 
conditions will be used as the limiting condition in these evaluations.  A simultaneous feasibility 
test conducted pursuant to this section by the Office of the Interconnection shall assess the 
simultaneous feasibility under the following conditions: 
 
(i) Based on next allocation year with all existing stage 1 and stage 2 Auction 
Revenue Rights modeled as fixed injection-withdrawal pairs. 
 
(ii) Based on 10 year allocation model with all eligible stage 1A Auction Revenue 
Rights for each year including base load growth for each year. 
 
(e) Simultaneous feasibility tests for Incremental Auction Revenue Rights requested 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.8 and Tariff, Part VI, Subpart C, section 
231 shall ensure that the request for the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights does not increase 
the megawatt flow on facilities binding in the current Auction Revenue Rights allocation or in 
future stage 1A allocations and does not cause megawatt flow to exceed applicable ratings on 
any other facilities in either set of conditions.  The most limiting set of conditions will be used as 
the limiting conditions in these evaluations.  A simultaneous feasibility test conducted pursuant 
to this section by the Office of the Interconnection shall assess the simultaneous feasibility using 
the following models derived from the markets model: 
 
(i) An Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model that is based on the existing 
allocation year with transmission outages removed (i.e., the transmission assumed 
out of service in the base markets model is assumed to be in service).  All existing 
stage 1 and stage 2 Auction Revenue Rights are modeled as fixed injection 
withdrawal pairs. 
 
(ii) A 10 year allocation model with all eligible stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights for 
each year including base load growth for each year. 
 
(f) Simultaneous feasibility tests pursuant to section (e) above utilize a transfer analysis to 
determine the flow impacts.  The transfer analysis is performed by injecting at the source and 
withdrawing at the sink and measuring the impacts on the facilities.  Additional details are 
provided in the PJM Manuals and related explanatory materials posted on the PJM website such 
as the PJM Whitepaper entitled “PJM Incremental Auction Revenue Rights Model Development 
and Analysis.” 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7 - FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 7.6 New Stage 1 Resources. 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 1 
7.6  New Stage 1 Resources. 
 
A Network Service User may request the addition of new stage 1 resources to the stage 1 
resource list if the capacity of the Stage 1 generation resources for a Zone determined pursuant to 
Section 7.4.2(b) is less than sixty percent (60%) of the of peak load in the Zone.  Requests made 
pursuant to this section shall be subject to Section 7.5(c) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement and 
shall be limited to generation resources either owned by the requesting party or those subject to a 
bona fide firm energy and capacity supply contracts where such contract is executed by the 
requesting party to meet load obligations for which it is eligible to receive stage 1 Auction 
Revenue Rights and remains in force and effect for a minimum term of ten (10) years. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7 - FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 7.7 Alternate Stage 1 Resources. 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
7.7 Alternate Stage 1 Resources. 
 
A Network Service User may replace one or more of its existing stage 1 resources and its 
associated megawatt amount of Auction Revenue Rights determined pursuant to Section 7.4.2(b) 
with an alternate resource.  It the Network Service User making such request accepts the 
megawatt amount of Auction Revenue Rights associated with the alternate resource as 
established by the Office of the Interconnection, the alternate resource shall replace the relevant 
existing stage 1 resource prospectively beginning with the next annual Auction Revenue Rights 
allocation.  If the Network Service User making such request rejects the megawatt amount of 
Auction Revenue Rights established by the Office of the Interconnection for the alternate 
resource, the Auction Revenue Rights associated with the original stage 1 resource shall remain 
in effect for the Network Service User.  Requests made pursuant to this section shall be subject 
to the following: 
 
• Requests made pursuant to this section shall be subject to Section 7.5(c); 
 
• Eligible alternate resources shall be limited to generation resources owned by the 
requesting party or bona fide firm energy and capacity supply contracts that meet the 
requirements set forth in Section 7.6 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement; 
 
• Alternate resources shall be of an electrically equivalent megawatt amount, which means 
that relative to the existing resource, the alternate resource cannot consume a greater 
amount of transmission capability on facilities binding in the current Auction Revenue 
Rights allocation or future stage 1A allocations, and cannot allow megawatt flow(s) to 
exceed applicable ratings on any other facilities; 
 
• The total amount of requested alternate stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights cannot exceed 
the original awarded stage 1 megawatt amounts of Auction Revenue Rights associated 
with the original historical resource as determined pursuant to Section 7.4.2(b). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7 - FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 7.8 Elective Upgrade Auction 
Revenue Right 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 1 
7.8 Elective Upgrade Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
(a) In addition to any Incremental Auction Revenue Rights established under the PJM Tariff, 
any party may elect to fully fund Network Upgrades to obtain Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights pursuant to this section, provided that Incremental Auction Revenue Rights granted 
pursuant to this section shall be simultaneously feasible with outstanding Auction Revenue 
Rights, which shall include stage 1 and stage 2 Auction Revenue Rights, and against stage 1A 
Auction Revenue Right capability for the future 10 year period, as determined by the Office of 
the Interconnection pursuant to Section 7.8(b) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement.  A request made 
pursuant to this section shall specify a source, sink and megawatt amount, where the source and 
sink each meet the criteria described for stage 1 in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, sections 
7.4.2(b) and 7.4.2(c). 
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall assess the simultaneous feasibility of the 
requested Incremental Auction Revenue Rights and the outstanding Auction Revenue Rights 
against the existing base system Auction Revenue Right capability and stage 1A Auction 
Revenue Right capability for the future 10 year period pursuant to Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 7.5.  This preliminary assessment will determine the incremental flow impact 
necessary on facilities. 
 
(c) The incremental flow impact represents the incremental capability required on a facility 
to ensure the requested Incremental Auction Revenue Rights can be made feasible.  This 
required capability is used to determine the upgrades required to accommodate the requested 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights and ensure all outstanding Auction Revenue Rights are 
simultaneously feasible.  Additional details are provided in the PJM Manuals and related 
explanatory materials posted on the PJM website such as the PJM Whitepaper entitled “PJM 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights Model Development and Analysis.” 
 
(i) For Incremental Auction Revenue Rights requests, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall use an Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model to 
perform the simultaneous feasibility test detailed in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 7.5.  The Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model shall 
consist of an Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model and the 10 year stage 
1A Auction Revenue Rights model.  An Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
model uses the same transmission system model used in the annual Auction 
Revenue Rights process, except any modeled transmission outages included in the 
Auction Revenue Rights process are removed (i.e., the transmission assumed out 
of service in the base markets model is assumed to be in service).  Auction 
Revenue Rights requests that were denied or pro-rated in the annual Auction 
Revenue Rights allocation as a result of assumed transmission outages also are 
restored in the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model because the 
transmission is assumed to be in service for purposes of this model.   
 
(ii) If the incremental market flows created by the Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights request cause facilities to be limited or increase the market flow on already 
limited facilities in either the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model or the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7 - FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 7.8 Elective Upgrade Auction 
Revenue Right 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 2 
10 year stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights model, increased system capability will 
be required in order for the Office of the Interconnection to grant the Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights request.  This required incremental capability is used to 
determine the upgrades required to accommodate the requested Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights and ensure all outstanding Auction Revenue Rights 
(including any pro-rated but restored Auction Revenue Rights requests) are 
simultaneously feasible.  Additional details are provided in the PJM Manuals and 
related explanatory materials posted on the PJM website such as the PJM 
Whitepaper entitled “PJM Incremental Auction Revenue Rights Model 
Development and Analysis.” 
 
(iii) In addition to the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model, the Office of the 
Interconnection uses a planning model that consists of the Regional Transmission 
Expansion Plan model used by the Office of the Interconnection to study system 
needs and proposed projects five years forward combined with modeled in-service 
and planned generation and forecasted load.  The planning model includes 
transmission system upgrades that are ahead of the proposed Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights request in the New Services Queue.  The upgrades required for 
the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights request must achieve additional 
incremental capability over and above any planned baseline or Supplemental 
Project upgrades, including upgrades related to a Supplemental Project with a 
projected in-service date later than the applicable planning case year. 
 
(d) If a party elects to fund upgrades to obtain Incremental Auction Revenue Rights pursuant 
to this section, no less than forty-five (45) days prior to the in-service date of the relevant 
upgrades, as determined by the Office of the Interconnection, the Office of the Interconnection 
shall notify the party of the actual amount of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights that will be 
granted to the party based on the allocation process established pursuant to Section 231 of Part 
VI of the Tariff. 
 
(e) Incremental Auction Revenue Rights established pursuant to this section shall be 
effective for the lesser of thirty (30) years, or the life of the project, from the in-service date of 
the Network Upgrade(s).  At any time during this thirty-year period (or the life of the Network 
Upgrade whichever is less), in lieu of continuing this thirty-year Auction Revenue Right, the 
owner of the right shall have a one-time choice to switch to an optional mechanism, whereby, on 
an annual basis, it will have the choice to request an Auction Revenue Right during the annual 
Auction Revenue Rights allocation process between the same source and sink, provided the 
Auction Revenue Right is simultaneously feasible.  A party that is granted Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights pursuant to this section may return such rights at any time, provided that the 
Office of the Interconnection determines that it can simultaneously accommodate all remaining 
outstanding Auction Revenue Rights following the return of such Auction Revenue Rights.  In 
the event a party returns Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, it shall retain no further rights 
regarding such Incremental Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
(f) No Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall be granted pursuant to this section if the 
costs associated with funding the associated Network Upgrades are included in the rate base of a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7 - FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 7.8 Elective Upgrade Auction 
Revenue Right 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 3 
public utility and on which a regulated return is earned. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7 - FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 7.9 Residual Auction Revenue 
Rights. 
Effective Date: 5/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-934-000 - Page 1 
7.9 Residual Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
(a) As necessary in each Planning Period PJM shall calculate Residual Auction Revenue 
Rights for Auction Revenue Rights pathways that were prorated pursuant to section 7.4.2(h) of 
Schedule 1 of this Agreement.  Residual Auction Revenue Rights calculated pursuant to this 
section shall be determined prior to the increase in transmission capability, including the return 
to service of existing transmission capability, that creates the Residual Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
(b) Network Service Users and Qualifying Transmission Customers allocated stage 1 
Auction Revenue Rights pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, sections 7.4.2(a)-(c) that 
were subject to proration pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.2(h) shall be 
eligible to receive Residual Auction Revenue Rights.  Residual Auction Revenue Rights shall be 
allocated pursuant to the following schedule: 
 
(i)  The initial allocation of Residual Auction Revenue Rights shall be to 
holders of prorated stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights in an amount equal 
to the difference between the allocated stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights 
and the requested stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights.  
 
(ii) Residual Auction Revenue Rights remaining after an allocation made 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.9(b)(i) shall be 
allocated to holders of prorated stage 1B Auction Revenue Rights in an 
amount equal to the difference between the allocated stage 1B Auction 
Revenue Rights and the requested stage 1B Auction Revenue Rights.  
 
(iii)  Residual Auction Revenue Rights remaining after allocations made 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, sections 7.9(b)(i) and (ii) 
shall not be allocated to any entity and shall not be considered by the 
Office of the Interconnection in its administration of Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7. 
 
(c) The sum of a Network Service User’s and Qualifying Transmission Customer’s Residual 
Auction Revenue Rights awarded pursuant to this section and its stage 1 and 2 Auction Revenue 
Rights awarded in an annual allocation shall not exceed the entity’s peak load.   
 
(d) Residual Auction Revenue Rights awarded pursuant to this section shall be effective on 
the first day of the month in a Planning Period the increase in transmission capability  creating 
the Residual Auction Revenue Rights is included in the administration of Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 7.1.1(a). 
 
(e) Residual Auction Revenue Rights awarded pursuant to this section shall be subject to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.2(e). 
 
(f)  The value of Residual Auction Revenue Rights awarded pursuant to this section, 
determined as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.3(b), shall be positive. 
Negatively valued Residual Auction Revenue Rights will not be awarded.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7 - FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 7.10 Financial Settlement 
Effective Date: 1/1/2011 - Docket #: ER11-2527-000 - Page 1 
7.10 Financial Settlement  
 
Financial credits and charges for Auction Revenue Rights and Financial Transmission Rights, 
including associated auction charges, shall be calculated and accrued on a daily basis, and 
included in PJMSettlement’s regular invoice to each participant for the relevant period of such 
invoice. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> 
OA SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 7 - FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AUCT --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 7.11 
PJMSettlement as Counterparty 
Effective Date: 1/1/2011 - Docket #: ER11-2527-000 - Page 1 
7.11 PJMSettlement as Counterparty 
 
(a) Auction Revenue Rights and Financial Transmission Rights provide certain 
contractual rights and obligations for the holders of such rights set forth in this Schedule 1, 
the Agreement, and the PJM Tariff.  PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty with respect 
to the contractual rights and obligations of the holders of Auction Revenue Rights, and 
Financial Transmission Rights. 
 
(b) As specified in sections 5.2.2(d) and 7 of this Schedule 1, Market Participants may 
trade Financial Transmission Rights and Auction Revenue Rights and under certain 
circumstances they may convert Auction Revenue Rights to Financial Transmission Rights. 
PJMSettlement shall not be the counterparty with respect to bilateral transfers of Financial 
Transmission Rights or Auction Revenue Rights between Market Participants or the 
conversion of Auction Revenue Rights to Financial Transmission Rights.   
 

