[SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 3-ACCOUNTING AND BILLING - Part 4 of 4]

Control Areas that have undertaken a commitment pursuant to a written agreement with the 
Office of the Interconnection (i) to purchase Operating Margin whenever the purchasing Control 
Area’s operations will affect the dispatch of resources in the PJM Region, and (ii) to sell 
Operating Margin on a comparable basis to the LLC.   
 
3.5.3 Transmission Congestion. 
 
Each Control Area purchasing Operating Margin shall be assessed Transmission Congestion 
Charges and Transmission Loss Charges as specified in Section 5 of this Schedule. 
 
3.5.4 Billing. 
 
PJMSettlement on behalf of PJM shall prepare a billing statement each billing cycle for each 
Control Area to which Emergency energy or Operating Margin was sold, and showing the net 
amount to be paid by such Control Area.  Billing statements shall provide sufficient detail, as 
specified in the PJM Manuals, to allow verification of the billing amounts. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 3 - ACCOUNTING AND BILLING --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 3.6 - Metering Reconciliation 
Effective Date: 12/3/2019 - Docket #: ER19-469-002 - Page 1 
3.6 Metering Reconciliation. 
 
3.6.1 Meter Correction Billing. 
 
Metering errors and corrections will be reconciled at the end of each month by a meter correction 
charge (positive or negative).  The monthly meter correction charge for tie meter corrections 
shall be the product of the positive or negative deviation in energy amounts, times the real-time 
Settlement Interval load weighted average real-time Locational Marginal Price for all intervals of 
that month for all load buses in the PJM Region.  The monthly meter correction charge for 
generator meter corrections, including Pseudo-Tie generator imports into the PJM Region, shall 
be the product of the positive or negative deviation in energy amounts, times the Real-time 
Settlement Interval generation weighted average Locational Marginal Price at that generator’s 
bus for all intervals of that month. 
 
The monthly meter correction charge for Dynamic Schedule imports into the PJM Region, and 
non unit-specific Dynamic Schedule exports out of the PJM Region, shall be the product of the 
positive or negative deviation in energy amounts and the Dynamic Schedule’s weighted average 
interface real-time Locational Marginal Price at the applicable Interface Pricing Point for all 
hours of that month.  
 
The monthly meter correction charge for Pseudo-Tie generator exports and unit-specific 
Dynamic Schedule exports out of the PJM Region shall be the product of the positive or negative 
deviation in energy amounts and the difference between the weighted average interface real-time 
Locational Marginal Price at the applicable Interface Pricing Point, and the generation weighted 
average Locational Marginal Price at that generator’s bus, for all hours of that month. 
 
3.6.2 Meter Corrections Between Market Participants.  
 
If a Market Participant or the Office of the Interconnection discovers a meter error affecting an 
interchange of energy with another Market Participant and makes the error known to such other 
Market Participant prior to the completion by the Office of the Interconnection of the accounting 
for the interchange, and if both Market Participants are willing to adjust hourly load records to 
compensate for the error and such adjustment does not affect other parties, an adjustment in load 
records may be made by the Market Participants in order to correct for the meter error, provided 
corrected information is furnished to the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with the 
Office of the Interconnection’s accounting deadlines.  No such adjustment may be made if the 
accounting for the Operating Day in which the interchange occurred has been completed by the 
Office of the Interconnection.  If this is not practical, the error shall be accounted for by a 
correction at the end of the billing cycle.  The Market Participants experiencing the error shall 
account for the full amount of the discrepancy and an appropriate debit or credit shall be applied 
to the Market Participants.  For Market Participants that are Electric Distributors that request the 
debit and credit to be further allocated to all Network Service Users in their territory (as 
documented in the PJM Manuals), where all Load Serving Entities in the respective Electric 
Distributor territory agree, the appropriate debit or credit shall be applied among Network 
Service Users in proportion to their deliveries to load served in the applicable territory. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 3 - ACCOUNTING AND BILLING --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 3.6 - Metering Reconciliation 
Effective Date: 12/3/2019 - Docket #: ER19-469-002 - Page 2 
3.6.3 500 kV Meter Errors. 
 
Billing shall be adjusted to account for errors in meters on 500 kV Transmission Facilities within 
the PJM Pre-Expansion Zones (excluding Allegheny Power) or between the PJM Pre-Expansion 
Zones (excluding Allegheny Power) and Allegheny Power.  The Market Participant with the tie 
meter or generator meter experiencing the error shall account for the full amount of the 
discrepancy and an appropriate debit or credit shall be applied among Electric Distributors that 
report hourly net energy flows from metered Tie Lines in the Pre-Expansion Zones (excluding 
Allegheny Power) in proportion to the load consumed in their territories.  The error shall be 
accounted for by a correction at the end of the billing cycle.  For Market Participants that are 
Electric Distributors that request the debit and credit to be further allocated to all Network 
Service Users in their territory (as documented in the PJM Manuals), where all Load Serving 
Entities in the respective Electric Distributor territory agree, the appropriate debit or credit shall 
be applied among Network Service Users in proportion to their deliveries to load served in the 
applicable territory.  Such allocation shall not include purchases of Direct Charging Energy. 
 
3.6.4 Meter Corrections Between Control Areas. 
 
An error between accounted for and metered interchange between a Party in the PJM Region and 
an entity in a Control Area other than the PJM Region shall be corrected by adjusting the hourly 
meter readings.  If this is not practical, the error shall be accounted for by a correction at the end 
of the billing cycle.  The Market Participant with ties or Dynamic Transfers with such other 
Control Area experiencing the error shall account for the full amount of the discrepancy.  
However, if the meter correction applies to a tie on the 500 kV system between the PJM Pre-
Expansion Zones (excluding Allegheny Power) and other Control Areas, Electric Distributors 
that report hourly net energy flows from metered Tie Lines in the Pre-Expansion Zones 
(excluding Allegheny Power) shall account for the full amount of the discrepancy in proportion 
to the load consumed in their territories.   The appropriate debit or credit shall be applied among 
Network Service Users in proportion to their deliveries to load served in the PJM Region.  Such 
allocation shall not include purchases of Direct Charging Energy.  The Office of the 
Interconnection will adjust the actual or scheduled interchange between the other Control Area 
and the PJM Region to maintain a proper record of inadvertent energy flow.   
 
3.6.5 Meter Correction Data. 
 
Meter error data shall be submitted to the Office of the Interconnection not later than the last 
Business Day of the month following the end of the monthly billing cycle applicable to the meter 
correction. 
 
3.6.6 Correction Limits. 
 
A Market Participant may not assert a claim for an adjustment in billing as a result of a meter 
error for any error discovered more than two years after the date on which the metering occurred.  
Any claim for an adjustment in billing as a result of a meter error shall be limited to bills for 
transactions occurring in the most recent annual accounting period of the billing Market 
Participant in which the meter error occurred, and the prior annual accounting period. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 3 - ACCOUNTING AND BILLING --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 3.6 - Metering Reconciliation 
Effective Date: 12/3/2019 - Docket #: ER19-469-002 - Page 3 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 3 - ACCOUNTING AND BILLING --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 3.7 - Inadvertent Interchange 
Effective Date: 12/3/2019 - Docket #: ER19-469-002 - Page 1 
3.7 Inadvertent Interchange. 
 
Inadvertent Interchange will be reconciled each hour by a charge allocation (positive or negative) 
applied to Network Service Users in proportion to their deliveries to load in the PJM Region, 
which shall be the product of the positive or negative Inadvertent Interchange amount times the 
PJM load weighted average Locational Marginal Price for that hour.  Such allocation shall not 
include purchases of Direct Charging Energy. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 3 - ACCOUNTING AND BILLING --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 3.8 - Market-to-Market Coordination 
Effective Date: 8/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1730-000 - Page 1 
3.8 Market-to-Market Coordination 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall charge or credit a Market Participant for the 
transmission congestion from the Market Participant’s Pseudo-Tie generator within 
MISO to the PJM-MISO interface resulting from market-to-market coordination pursuant 
to this Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.8, and the parallel provisions of 
Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.8.  The Office of the Interconnection shall 
calculate such charges and credits for the Real-time Energy Market for each Pseudo-Tie 
generator using the following formulas.   
 
RT Charge / CreditPT = RT CLMPPT * DevMWPT 
 
Where: 
 
RTCLMPPT = ∑RT ShadowPriceFG * (RT ShiftFactorFG,PT – RT ShiftFactorFG,Interface) 
 
RTCLMPPT = Real-time congestion LMP for the path from 
the Pseudo-Tie generator to the MISO-PJM 
common interface. 
 
RT ShadowPriceFG = Real-time shadow price for each M2M 
Flowgate calculated in accordance with the 
Joint Operating Agreement between the 
Midcontinent Independent Transmission 
System Operator, Inc. and PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. 
 
RT ShiftFactorFG,PT = Real-time shift factor for the Pseudo-Tie 
generator and each M2M Flowgate. 
 
 
Where: 
 
DevMWPT = (RT MWPT – DA MWPT) 
 
DevMWPT =  The megawatt deviation between the cleared 
megawatts in the Day-ahead Energy Market 
and Real-time Energy Market megawatt 
output for a Pseudo-Tie generator. 
 
RT MWPT = Real-time Energy Market megawatt output 
for the Pseudo-Tie generator. 
 
DA MWPT = Cleared and committed megawatts for a 
Pseudo-Tie generator in the Day-ahead 
Energy Market. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA 
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 3 - ACCOUNTING AND BILLING --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 3.8 - Market-to-Market Coordination 
Effective Date: 8/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1730-000 - Page 2 
The dollars refunded to or collected from the Pseudo-Tie generator will be, respectively, 
distributed from or added to the Balancing Congestion Charges fund. 
 
 

