Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA Schedule 13 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 1 
Schedule 13  
 
Rates, Terms, and Conditions of Service for 
PJM Settlement, Inc. 
 
 In accordance with the order of the Commission, dated September 3, 2010, in Docket No. 
ER10-1196-000, this Schedule 13 establishes as a shared tariff the rates, terms, and conditions of 
PJMSettlement services as set forth below. 
 
a) Under the Tariff and Operating Agreement, PJM administers the provision of 
transmission service and associated ancillary services to customers and operates and administers 
various centralized electric power and energy markets.   
 
b) Under the  Tariff and Operating Agreement, PJMSettlement is the entity that (i) contracts 
with customers and conducts financial settlements regarding the use of the transmission capacity 
of the Transmission System that PJM, as the Transmission Provider, administers under the PJM 
Tariff and this Agreement; (ii) is the Counterparty with respect to the agreements and “pool” 
transactions in the centralized markets that PJM, as the Transmission Provider, administers under 
the PJM Tariff and this Agreement; and (iii) is the Counterparty to Financial Transmission 
Rights  and Auction Revenue Rights instruments held by a Market Participant.   
 
c) In accordance with Operating Agreement section 3.3, unless otherwise expressly stated in 
the Tariff or Operating Agreement, PJMSettlement is the Counterparty to the customers 
purchasing Transmission Service and Network Integration Transmission Service, and to the other 
transactions with customers and other entities under the PJM Tariff or this Agreement.  
Accordingly, all rates, terms, and conditions of Transmission Service, Network Integration 
Transmission Service, and other transactions with entities under this Agreement, set forth 
throughout this Agreement, shall constitute rates, terms, and conditions of PJMSettlement 
service. 
 
d)   Each seller shall be deemed to warrant that it holds good title to the products that are the 
subject of transactions it undertakes with PJMSettlement as a buyer.  In accordance with and 
consistent with this warranty, PJMSettlement in turn warrants that it holds good title to the 
products that are the subject of transactions it undertakes with each buyer.  The warranties set 
forth in this paragraph are provided only in connection with the requirements established by the 
FERC for PJMSettlement to serve as a Counterparty.  Accordingly, any enforcement of, or 
challenge to, the warranties set forth in this paragraph shall be heard exclusively before the 
FERC.  This paragraph is not intended to create independent rights or obligations for any party 
under the Uniform Commercial Code or common law that might be enforceable in federal or 
state courts or in any forum other than FERC.   
 
e) In accordance with Operating Agreement, section 3.3, PJMSettlement shall not be the 
contracting party to other non-transmission transactions that are (1) bilateral transactions 
between market participants reported to the Transmission Provider, and (2) self-supplied or self-
scheduled transactions reported to the Transmission Provider. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA Schedule 13 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 2 
f) In accordance with Operating Agreement, section 3.3, PJMSettlement shall not be the 
Counterparty with respect to agreements and transactions regarding the Transmission Provider’s 
administration of Tariff, Part IV Tariff, Part VI, Tariff, Schedule 1, Tariff, Schedule 9 through 
Tariff, Schedule 9-MMU, Tariff, Schedule 10-NERC, Tariff, Schedule 10-RFC, Tariff, Schedule 
14, Tariff, Schedule 16, Tariff, Schedule16-A, and Tariff, Schedule 17. 
 
g) The costs of services provided by PJMSettlement for the benefit of Market Participants 
and Transmission Customers shall be collected by PJMSettlement through the charge set forth in 
Tariff, Schedule 9-PJMSettlement. 
 
h) Billing and payment provisions applicable to PJMSettlement are set forth in Tariff, 
section 7 and Operating Agreement, section 14, 14A, and 14B. 
 
 
 

