Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 6-A - Interregional Transmission Coordination Be 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 6-A 
Interregional Transmission Coordination Between the SERTP and PJM Regions 
 
The Office of the Interconnection, through its regional transmission planning process, 
coordinates with the public utility transmission providers of Southeastern Regional Transmission 
Planning (“SERTP,” and individually, “SERTP Transmission Provider,” and collectively, 
“SERTP Transmission Providers”), as the transmission providers and planners for the SERTP 
region to address transmission planning coordination issues related to interregional transmission 
projects.  The interregional transmission coordination procedures include a detailed description 
of the process for coordination between the SERTP Transmission Providers and the Office of the 
Interconnection, to identify possible interregional transmission projects that could address 
transmission needs more efficiently or cost-effectively than transmission projects included in the 
respective regional transmission plans.  The interregional transmission coordination procedures 
are hereby provided in this Schedule 6-A with additional materials provided on the PJM 
Regional Planning website. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection and each of the SERTP Transmission Providers shall: 
 
(1)  Coordinate and share the results of the SERTP Transmission Providers’ and the 
Office of the Interconnection’s regional transmission plans to identify possible interregional 
transmission projects that could address transmission needs more efficiently or cost-effectively 
than separate regional transmission projects;  
 
(2)  Identify and jointly evaluate transmission projects that are proposed to be located 
in both transmission planning regions; 
 
(3)  Exchange, at least annually, planning data and information; and  
 
(4)  Maintain a website and e-mail list for the communication of information related to 
the coordinated planning process. 
 
The SERTP Transmission Providers and the Office of the Interconnection developed a 
mutually agreeable method for allocating between the two transmission planning regions the 
costs of new interregional transmission projects that are located within both transmission 
planning regions.  Such cost allocation method satisfies the six interregional cost allocation 
principles set forth in Order No. 1000 and are included in Tariff, Schedule 12-B.   
 
For purposes of this Schedule 6-A, each of the SERTP Transmission Provider’s 
transmission planning process is the process described in each of the SERTP Transmission 
Providers’ open access transmission tariffs; the Office of the Interconnection’s regional 
transmission planning process is the process described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6.  
References to the respective transmission planning processes in each of the SERTP Transmission 
Providers’ open access transmission tariffs are intended to identify the activities described in 
those tariff provisions.  References to the respective regional transmission plans in this Schedule 
6-A are intended to identify, for the Office of the Interconnection, the PJM Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan (“RTEP”), as defined in applicable PJM documents and, for the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 6-A - Interregional Transmission Coordination Be 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
each SERTP Transmission Providers, the SERTP regional transmission plan which includes the 
applicable ten (10) year transmission expansion plan.  Unless noted otherwise, section references 
in this Schedule 6-A refer to sections within this Schedule 6-A.  
 
Nothing in this Schedule 6-A is intended to affect the terms of any bilateral planning or 
operating agreements between transmission owners and/or transmission service providers that 
exist as of the effective date of this Schedule 6-A or that are executed at some future date. 
 
INTERREGIONAL TRANSMISSION PLANNING PRINCIPLES 
 
 Representatives of the SERTP and the Office of the Interconnection will meet no less 
than once per year to facilitate the interregional coordination procedures described below (as 
applicable).  Representatives of the SERTP and the Office of the Interconnection may meet more 
frequently during the evaluation of project(s) proposed for purposes of interregional cost 
allocation between the SERTP and the Office of the Interconnection.  For purposes of this 
Schedule 6-A, an “interregional transmission project” means a facility or set of facilities that 
would be physically located in both the SERTP and PJM regions and would interconnect to 
transmission facilities in both the SERTP and PJM regions.  The facilities to which the project is 
proposed to interconnect may be either existing transmission facilities or transmission projects 
included in the regional transmission plan that are currently under development. 
 
1. Coordination  
 
1.1 Review of Respective Regional Transmission Plans:  Biennially, the Office of 
the Interconnection and the SERTP Transmission Providers shall review each other’s current 
regional transmission plan(s) and engage in the data exchange and joint evaluation described in 
sections 2 and 3 below.  
 
1.1.1 The review of each region’s regional transmission plan(s), which plans 
include the transmission needs and planned upgrades of the transmission providers in 
each region, shall occur on a mutually agreeable timetable, taking into account each 
region’s transmission planning process timeline. 
 
1.2  Review of Proposed Interregional Transmission Projects:  The SERTP 
Transmission Providers  and the Office of the Interconnection will also coordinate with regard to 
the evaluation of interregional transmission projects identified by the SERTP Transmission 
Providers  and the Office of the Interconnection as well as interregional transmission projects 
proposed for Interregional Cost Allocation Purposes (“Interregional CAP”), pursuant to section 3 
below and Tariff, Schedule 12-B.  Initial coordination activities regarding new interregional 
proposals will typically begin during the third calendar quarter.  The SERTP Transmission 
Providers and the Office of the Interconnection will exchange status updates for new 
interregional transmission project proposals or proposals currently under consideration as 
needed.  These status updates will generally include, if applicable: (i) an update of the region’s 
evaluation of the proposal; (ii) the latest calculation of Regional Benefits (as defined in Tariff, 
Schedule 12-B); (iii) the anticipated timeline for future assessments; and (iv) reevaluations 
related to the proposal.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 6-A - Interregional Transmission Coordination Be 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 3 
 
1.3 Coordination of Assumptions Used in Joint Evaluation:  The SERTP 
Transmission Providers and the Office of the Interconnection will coordinate assumptions used 
in joint evaluations, as necessary, which includes items such as: 
1.3.1 Expected timelines/milestones associated with the joint evaluation 
1.3.2 Study assumptions 
1.3.3 Regional benefit calculations  
 
1.4 Posting of Materials on Regional Planning Websites:  The SERTP 
Transmission Providers and the Office of the Interconnection will coordinate with respect to the 
posting of materials related to the interregional coordination procedures described in this 
Schedule 6-A on each region’s regional planning website.  
 
2.  Data Exchange  
 
2.1 At least annually, each of the SERTP Transmission Providers and the Office of 
the Interconnection shall exchange power-flow models and associated data used in the regional 
transmission planning processes to develop their respective then-current regional transmission 
plan(s).  This exchange will occur when such data is available in each of the transmission 
planning processes, typically during the first calendar quarter.  Additional transmission-based 
models and data may be exchanged between the SERTP Transmission Providers and the Office 
of the Interconnection as necessary and if requested.  For purposes of the interregional 
coordination activities outlined in this Schedule 6-A, only data and models used in the 
development of the SERTP Transmission Provider’s and the Office of the Interconnection’s 
then-current regional transmission plans and used in their respective regional transmission 
planning processes will be exchanged.  This data will be posted on the pertinent regional 
transmission planning process’ websites, consistent with the posting requirements of the 
respective regional transmission planning processes, and is considered CEII.  The Office of the 
Interconnection shall notify the SERTP Transmission Providers of such posting.  
 
2.2 The RTEP will be posted on the Office of the Interconnection’s Regional 
Planning website pursuant to the Office of the Interconnection’s regional transmission planning 
process.  The Office of the Interconnection shall notify the SERTP Transmission Providers of 
such posting so that the SERTP Transmission Providers may retrieve these transmission plans.  
Each of the SERTP Transmission Providers will exchange its then-current regional plan(s) in a 
similar manner according to its regional transmission planning process.  
 
3.  Joint Evaluation  
 
3.1  Identification of Interregional Transmission Projects:  The SERTP 
Transmission Providers and the Office of the Interconnection shall exchange planning models 
and data and current regional transmission plans as described in section 2 above.  Each SERTP 
Transmission Provider and the Office of the Interconnection will review one another’s then-
current regional transmission plan(s) in accordance with the coordination procedures described 
in section 1 above and their respective regional transmission planning processes.  If through this 
review, a SERTP Transmission Provider and the Office of the Interconnection identify a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 6-A - Interregional Transmission Coordination Be 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 4 
potential interregional transmission project that could be more efficient or cost effective than 
projects included in the respective regional plans, the SERTP Transmission Provider and the 
Office of the Interconnection will jointly evaluate the potential project pursuant to section 3.3 
below.   
 
3.2 Identification of Interregional Transmission Projects by Stakeholders:  
Stakeholders may propose projects that may be more efficient or cost-effective than projects 
included in the SERTP Transmission Providers’ and the Office of the Interconnection’s regional 
transmission plans pursuant to the procedures in each region’s regional transmission planning 
processes.  The SERTP Transmission Providers and Office of the Interconnection will evaluate 
interregional transmission projects proposed by stakeholders pursuant to section 3.3 below. 
 
3.3 Evaluation of Interregional Transmission Projects:  The SERTP Transmission 
Providers and the Office of the Interconnection shall act through their respective regional 
transmission planning processes to evaluate potential interregional transmission projects and to 
determine whether the inclusion of any potential interregional transmission projects in each 
region’s regional transmission plan would be more efficient or cost-effective than projects 
included in the respective then-current regional transmission plans.  Such analysis shall be 
consistent with accepted planning practices of the respective regions and the methods utilized to 
produce each region’s respective regional transmission plan(s). The Office of the Interconnection 
will evaluate potential interregional transmission projects consistent with Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 6 and the PJM Manuals 14A entitled New Services Request Process and 14B entitled 
PJM Region Transmission Planning Process on the PJM Website at 
http://www.pjm.com/documents/manuals.aspx.  To the extent possible and as needed, 
assumptions and models will be coordinated between the SERTP Transmission Providers and the 
Office of the Interconnection, as described in section 1 above.  Data shall be exchanged to 
facilitate this evaluation using the procedures described in section 2 above.   
 
3.4 Evaluation of Interregional Transmission Projects Proposed for 
Interregional Cost Allocation Purposes:  Interregional transmission projects proposed for 
Interregional CAP must be submitted in both the SERTP and PJM regional transmission 
planning processes.  The project submittals must satisfy the applicable requirements for 
submittal of interregional transmission projects, including those in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 6 and Tariff, Schedule 12-B.  The submittals in the respective regional transmission 
planning processes must identify the project proposal as interregional in scope and identify 
SERTP and PJM as the regions in which the project is proposed to interconnect.  The Office of 
the Interconnection will determine whether the submittal for the proposed interregional 
transmission project satisfies all applicable requirements.  Upon finding that the project submittal 
satisfies all such applicable requirements, the Office of the Interconnection will notify the 
SERTP Transmission Provider.  Upon both regions so notifying one another that the project is 
eligible for consideration pursuant to their respective regional transmission planning processes, 
the SERTP Transmission Provider and the Office of the Interconnection will jointly evaluate the 
proposed interregional projects.  
 
3.4.1 If an interregional transmission project is proposed in the SERTP and 
Office of Interconnection for Interregional CAP, the initial evaluation of the project will 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 6-A - Interregional Transmission Coordination Be 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 5 
typically begin during the third calendar quarter, with analysis conducted in the same manner as 
analysis of interregional projects identified pursuant to sections 3.1 and 3.2 above.  Further 
evaluation shall also be performed pursuant to this section 3.4.  Projects proposed for 
Interregional CAP shall also be subject to the requirements of Tariff, Schedule 12-B. 
 
3.4.2. Each region, acting through its regional transmission planning process, 
will evaluate proposals to determine whether the interregional transmission project(s) proposed 
for Interregional CAP addresses transmission needs that are currently being addressed with 
projects in its regional transmission plan(s) and, if so, which projects in the regional transmission 
plan(s) could be displaced by the proposed project(s).  
 
3.4.3. Based upon its evaluation, each region will quantify a Regional Benefit 
based upon the transmission costs that each region is projected to avoid due to its transmission 
projects being displaced by the proposed project.  For purposes of this Schedule 6-A, “Regional 
Benefit” means: (i) for the SERTP Transmission Providers, the total avoided costs of projects 
included in the then-current regional transmission plan that would be displaced if the proposed 
interregional transmission project was included and (ii) for the Office of the Interconnection, the 
total avoided costs of projects included in the then-current regional transmission plan that would 
be displaced if the proposed interregional transmission project was included.  The Regional 
Benefit is not necessarily the same as the benefits used for purposes of regional cost allocation. 
 
3.5 Inclusion of Interregional Projects Proposed for Interregional CAP in 
Regional Transmission Plans:  An interregional transmission project proposed for Interregional 
CAP in the SERTP and Office of the Interconnection will be included in the respective regional 
plans for purposes of cost allocation only after it has been selected by both the SERTP and 
Office of the Interconnection regional processes to be included in their respective regional plans 
for purposes of cost allocation.  
 
3.5.1.  To be selected in both the SERTP and Office of the Interconnection 
regional plans for purposes of cost allocation means that each region has performed all 
evaluations, as prescribed in its regional transmission planning processes, necessary for a project 
to be included in its regional transmission plans for purposes of cost allocation. 
 
• For SERTP:  All requisite approvals are obtained, as prescribed in the SERTP 
regional transmission planning process, necessary for a project to be included in the 
SERTP regional transmission plan for purposes of cost allocation.  This includes any 
requisite regional benefit to cost (“BTC”) ratio calculations performed pursuant to the 
respective regional transmission planning processes.  For purposes of the SERTP, the 
anticipated allocation of costs of the interregional transmission project for use in the 
regional BTC ratio calculation shall be based upon the ratio of the SERTP’s Regional 
Benefit to the sum of the Regional Benefits identified for both the SERTP and the 
Office of the Interconnection; and 
 
• For the Office of Interconnection:  All requisite approvals are obtained, as prescribed 
in the PJM regional transmission planning process, necessary for a project to be 
included in the RTEP for purposes of cost allocation. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 6-A - Interregional Transmission Coordination Be 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 6 
 
3.6  Removal from Regional Plans:  An interregional transmission project may be 
removed from the SERTP’s or Office of the Interconnection’s regional plan for purposes of cost 
allocation: (i) if the developer fails to meet developmental milestones; (ii) pursuant to the 
reevaluation procedures specified in the respective regional transmission planning processes; or 
(iii) if the project is removed from one of the region’s regional transmission plan(s) pursuant to 
the requirements of its regional transmission planning process.  
 
3.6.1 The Office of the Interconnection, shall notify the SERTP Transmission 
Provider if an interregional project or a portion thereof is likely to be removed from its regional 
transmission plan.   
 
4. Transparency  
 
4.1  The Office of the Interconnection shall post procedures for coordination and joint 
evaluation on the Regional Planning website.  
 
4.2 Access to the data utilized will be made available through the Regional Planning 
website subject to the appropriate clearance, as applicable (such as CEII and confidential non-
CEII). Both planning regions will make available, on their respective regional websites, links to 
where stakeholders can register (if applicable/available) for the stakeholder committees or 
distribution lists of the other planning region. 
 
4.3 PJM will provide status updates of SERTP interregional activities to the TEAC 
including:  
• Facilities to be evaluated  
• Analysis performed  
• Determinations/results.  
 
4.4 Stakeholders will have an opportunity to provide input and feedback within the 
respective regional planning processes of SERTP and the Office of the Interconnection related to 
interregional facilities identified, analysis performed, and any determination/results.  
Stakeholders may participate in either or both regions’ regional planning processes to provide 
their input and feedback regarding the interregional coordination between the SERTP and the 
Office of the Interconnection.  
 
4.5 The Office of the Interconnection will post a list on the Regional Planning 
Website of interregional transmission projects proposed for purposes of cost allocation in both 
the SERTP and PJM that are not eligible for consideration because they do not satisfy the 
regional project threshold criteria of one or both of the regions as well as post an explanation of 
the thresholds the proposed interregional project failed to satisfy. 
 
 

