Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 3 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 3 -  
ALLOCATION OF THE COST AND EXPENSES 
OF THE OFFICE OF THE INTERCONNECTION 
 
 (a) Each group of Affiliates, each group of Related Parties, and each Member that is 
not in such a group shall pay an annual membership fee, the proceeds of which shall be used to 
defray the costs and expenses of the LLC, including the Office of the Interconnection.  The 
amount of the annual fee as of the Effective Date shall be $5,000.  The annual membership fee 
shall be charged on a calendar year basis.  In the year that a new membership commences, the 
annual membership fee may be reduced, at the election of the entity joining, by 1/12th for each 
full month that has passed prior to membership commencing.  If the entity seeking to join elects 
to pay a prorated annual membership fee as provided here, it shall not be permitted to vote at 
meetings until the first day following the date that its entry as a new Member is announced at a 
Members Committee meeting, provided that if an entity’s membership is terminated and it seeks 
to rejoin within twelve months, it will be subject to the full $5,000 annual membership fee.  
Annual membership fees shall not be refunded, in whole or in part, upon termination of 
membership.  Each group of Affiliates, each group of Related Parties, and each Member that 
does not timely pay its annual membership fee by January 1 shall be deemed to have given 
notice of its intent to withdrawal from PJM Membership in accordance with Operating 
Agreement, section 18.18.2.  PJM shall provide the affected group of Affiliates, group of Related 
Parties and/or Member with notification (electronic or otherwise) of its intent to apply this 
provision and the affected group of Affiliates, group of Related Parties and/or Member shall 
have 90 days therefrom to make payment of its annual membership fee before its withdrawal 
from PJM Membership becomes effective. 
 
 (b) Each group of State Offices of Consumer Advocates from the same state or the 
District of Columbia and each State Consumer Advocate that nominates its representative to vote 
on the Members Committee but is not in such a group shall pay an annual fee, the proceeds of 
which shall be used to defray the costs and expenses of the LLC, including the Office of the 
Interconnection.  The amount of the annual fee shall be $500.  The annual membership fee shall 
be charged on a calendar year basis and shall not be subject to proration for memberships 
commencing during a calendar year. 
 
 (c) The amount of the annual fees provided for herein shall be adjusted from time to 
time by the PJM Board to keep pace with inflation. 
 
 (d) All remaining costs of the operation of the LLC and the Office of the 
Interconnection and the expenses, including, without limitation, the costs of any insurance and 
any claims not covered by insurance, associated therewith as provided in this Agreement shall be 
costs of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. Administrative Services and shall be recovered as set forth 
in Tariff, Schedule 9.  Such costs may include costs associated with debt service, including the 
costs of funding reserve accounts or meeting coverage or similar requirements that financing 
covenants may necessitate. 
 
 (e) An entity accepted for membership in the LLC shall pay all costs and expenses 
associated with additions and modifications to its own metering, communication, computer, and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 3 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
other appropriate facilities and procedures needed to effect the inclusion of the entity in the 
operation of the Interconnection, and for additional services requested by Members from the 
LLC, PJMSettlement or the Office of the Interconnection that are not required for the operation 
of the LLC or the Office of the Interconnection. 
 

