Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4. ARBITRATION 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.1 When Required. 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.1 When Required. 
 
Any dispute as to a matter: (i) governed by one of the Related PJM Agreements that has not been 
resolved through the mediation procedures specified herein, (ii) involving a claim that one or 
more of the parties owes or is owed a sum of money, and (iii) the amount in controversy is less 
than $1,000,000.00, shall be subject to binding arbitration in accordance with the procedures 
specified herein.  If the parties so agree, any other disputes as to a matter governed by a Related 
PJM Agreement may be submitted to binding arbitration in accordance with the procedures 
specified herein. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.2 Binding Decision. 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
4.2 Binding Decision. 
 
Except as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 5, section 4.1, the resolution by 
arbitration of any dispute under this Agreement shall not be binding. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.3 Initiation. 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.3 Initiation. 
 
A party or parties to a dispute which is subject to the arbitration procedures specified herein shall 
send a written demand for arbitration to the Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator with a 
copy to the other party or parties to the dispute.  The demand for arbitration shall state each 
claim for which arbitration is being demanded, the relief being sought, a brief summary of the 
grounds for such relief and the basis for the claim, and shall identify all other parties to the 
dispute. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.4 Selection of Arbitrator(s) 
Effective Date: 6/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 1 
4.4 Selection of Arbitrator(s). 
 
The parties to a dispute for which arbitration has been demanded may agree on any person to 
serve as a single arbitrator, or shall endeavor in good faith to agree on a single arbitrator from a 
list of arbitrators prepared for the dispute by the Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator and 
delivered to the parties by facsimile or other electronic means promptly after receipt by the 
Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator of a demand for arbitration.  The Alternate Dispute 
Resolution Coordinator may draw from the lists of arbitrators maintained by the established 
dispute resolution committee of an Applicable Regional Entity, as the Alternate Dispute 
Resolution Coordinator deems appropriate.  In the event the Office of the Interconnection is one 
of the parties to the dispute, the Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator shall distribute the 
names of all qualified arbitrators on the Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator’s list. If the 
parties are unable to agree on a single arbitrator by the fourteenth day following delivery of the 
foregoing list of arbitrators or such other date as agreed to by the parties, then not later than the 
end of the seventh Business Day thereafter the party or parties demanding arbitration on the one 
hand, and the party or parties responding to the demand for arbitration on the other, shall each 
designate an arbitrator from a list for the dispute prepared by the Alternate Dispute Resolution 
Coordinator.  The arbitrators so chosen shall then choose a third arbitrator. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.5 Procedures 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.5 Procedures. 
 
The Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator shall compile and make available to the 
arbitrator(s) and the parties standard procedures for the arbitration of disputes, which procedures 
(i) shall include provision, upon good cause shown, for intervention or other participation in the 
proceeding by any party whose interests may be affected by its outcome, (ii) shall conform to the 
requirements specified in these PJM Dispute Resolution Procedures, and (iii) may be modified or 
adopted for use in a particular proceeding as the arbitrator(s) deem appropriate.  To the extent 
deemed appropriate by the Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator, the procedures shall be 
based on the American Arbitration Association Rules, to the extent such Rules are not 
inconsistent with any rule, standard or procedure adopted by the Office of the Interconnection, or 
with any provision of these PJM Dispute Resolution Procedures.  Upon selection of the 
arbitrator(s), arbitration shall go forward in accordance with applicable procedures. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.6 Summary Disposition and Interim Measur 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.6 Summary Disposition and Interim Measures. 
 
4.6.1 Lack of Good Faith Basis. 
 
The procedures for arbitration of a dispute shall provide a means for summary disposition of a 
demand for arbitration, or a response to a demand for arbitration, that in the reasoned opinion of 
the arbitrator(s) does not have a good faith basis in either law or fact.  If the arbitrator(s) 
determine(s) that a demand for arbitration or response to a demand for arbitration does not have a 
good faith basis in either law or fact, the arbitrator(s) shall have discretion to award the costs of 
the time, expenses, and other charges of the arbitrator(s) to the prevailing party. 
 
4.6.2 Discovery Limits. 
 
The procedures for the arbitration of a dispute shall provide a means for summary disposition 
without discovery of facts if there is no dispute as to any material fact, or with such limited 
discovery as the arbitrator(s) shall determine is reasonably likely to lead to the prompt resolution 
of any disputed issue of material fact.  
 
4.6.3 Interim Decision. 
 
The procedures for the arbitration of a dispute shall permit any party to a dispute to request the 
arbitrator(s) to render a written interim decision requiring that any action or decision that is the 
subject of a dispute not be put into effect, or imposing such other interim measures as the 
arbitrator(s) deem necessary or appropriate, to preserve the rights and obligations secured by any 
of the Related PJM Agreements during the pendency of the arbitration proceeding.  The parties 
shall be bound by such written decision pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.7 Discovery of Facts 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.7 Discovery of Facts. 
 
4.7.1 Discovery Procedures. 
 
The procedures for the arbitration of a dispute shall include adequate provision for the discovery 
of relevant facts, including the taking of testimony under oath, production of documents and 
other things, and inspection of land and tangible items.  The nature and extent of such discovery 
shall be determined as provided herein and shall take into account (i) the complexity of the 
dispute, (ii) the extent to which facts are disputed, and (iii) the amount in controversy.  The 
forms and methods for taking such discovery shall be as described in the Federal Rules of Civil 
Procedure, except as modified by the procedures established by the arbitrator(s) or agreement of 
the parties.    
 
4.7.2 Procedures Arbitrator. 
 
The sole arbitrator, or the arbitrator selected by the arbitrators chosen by the parties, as the case 
may be (such arbitrator being hereafter referred to as the “Procedures Arbitrator”), shall be 
responsible for establishing the timing, amount, and means of discovery, and for resolving 
discovery and other pre-hearing disagreement.  If a dispute involves contested issues of fact, 
promptly after the selection of the arbitrator(s) the Procedures Arbitrator shall convene a meeting 
of the parties for the purpose of establishing a schedule and plan of discovery and other 
pre-hearing actions.  
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.8 Evidentiary Hearing 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.8 Evidentiary Hearing. 
 
The procedures for the arbitration of a dispute shall provide for an evidentiary hearing, with 
provision for the cross-examination of witnesses, unless all parties consent to the resolution of 
the matter on the basis of a written record.  The forms and methods for taking evidence shall be 
as described in the Federal Rules of Evidence, except as modified by the procedures established 
by the arbitrator(s) or agreement of the parties.  The arbitrator(s) may require such written or 
other submissions from the parties as shall be deemed appropriate, including submission of the 
direct testimony of witnesses in written form.  The arbitrator(s) may exclude any evidence that is 
irrelevant, immaterial, unduly repetitious or prejudicial, or privileged.  Any party or parties may 
arrange for the preparation of a record of the hearing, and shall pay the costs thereof.  Such party 
or parties shall have no obligation to provide or agree to the provision of a copy of the record of 
the hearing to any party that does not pay an equal share of the cost of the record.  At the request 
of any party, the arbitrator(s) shall determine a fair and equitable allocation of the costs of the 
preparation of a record between or among the parties to the proceeding willing to share such 
costs. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.9 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.9 Confidentiality. 
 
4.9.1 Designation. 
 
Any document or other information obtained in the course of an arbitral proceeding and not 
otherwise available to the receiving party, including any such information contained in 
documents or other means of recording information created during the course of the proceeding, 
may be designated “Confidential” by the producing party.  The party producing documents or 
other information marked “Confidential” shall have twenty days from the production of such 
material to submit a request to the Procedures Arbitrator to establish such requirements for the 
protection of such documents or other information designated as “Confidential” as may be 
reasonable and necessary to protect the confidentiality and commercial value of such information 
and the rights of the parties, which requirements shall be binding on all parties to the dispute.  
Prior to the decision of the Procedures Arbitrator on a request for confidential treatment, 
documents or other information designated as “Confidential” shall not be used by the receiving 
party or parties, or the arbitrator(s), or anyone working for or on behalf of any of the foregoing, 
for any purpose other than the arbitration proceeding, and shall not be disclosed in any form to 
any person not involved in the arbitration proceeding without the prior written consent of the 
party producing the information or as permitted by the Procedures Arbitrator. 
 
4.9.2 Compulsory Disclosure. 
 
Any party receiving a request or demand for disclosure, whether by compulsory process, 
discovery request, or otherwise, of documents or information obtained in the course of an 
arbitration proceeding that have been designated “Confidential” and that are subject to a 
non-disclosure requirement under these PJM Dispute Resolution Procedures or a decision of the 
Procedures Arbitrator, shall immediately inform the party from which the information was 
obtained, and shall take all reasonable steps, short of incurring sanctions or other penalties, to 
afford the person or entity from which the information was obtained an opportunity to protect the 
information from disclosure.  Any party disclosing information in violation of these PJM Dispute 
Resolution Procedures or requirements established by the Procedures Arbitrator shall thereby 
waive any right to introduce or otherwise use such information in any judicial, regulatory, or 
other legal or dispute resolution proceeding, including the proceeding in which the information 
was obtained.   
 
4.9.3 Public Information. 
 
Nothing in the Related PJM Agreements shall preclude the use of documents or information 
properly obtained outside of an arbitral proceeding, or otherwise public, for any legitimate 
purpose, notwithstanding that the information was also obtained in the course of the arbitral 
proceeding.   
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.10 Timetable 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.10 Timetable. 
 
Promptly after the selection of the arbitrator(s), the arbitrator(s) shall set a date for the issuance 
of the arbitral decision, which shall be not later than eight months (or such earlier date as may be 
agreed to by the parties to the dispute) from the date of the selection of the arbitrator(s), with 
other dates, including the dates for an evidentiary hearing or other final submissions of evidence, 
set in light of this date.  The date for the evidentiary hearing or other final submission of 
evidence shall not be changed absent extraordinary circumstances.  The arbitrator(s) shall have 
the power to impose sanctions, including dismissal of the proceeding for dilatory tactics or undue 
delay in completing the arbitral proceedings.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.11 Advisory Interpretations 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.11 Advisory Interpretations. 
 
Except as to matters subject to decision in the arbitration proceeding, the arbitrator(s) may 
request as may be appropriate from any committee or subcommittee established under a Related 
PJM Agreement or by the Office of the Interconnection, an interpretation of any Related PJM 
Agreements, or of any standard, requirement, procedure, tariff, Schedule, principle, plan or other 
criterion or policy established by any committee or subcommittee.  Except to the extent that the 
Office of the Interconnection is itself a party to a dispute, the arbitrator(s) may request the advice 
of the Office of the Interconnection with respect to any matter relating to a responsibility of the 
Office of the Interconnection under the Agreement or with respect to any of the Related PJM 
Agreements, or to the PJM Manuals.  Any such interpretation or advice shall not relieve the 
arbitrator(s) of responsibility for resolving the dispute or deciding the arbitration proceeding in 
accordance with the standards specified herein. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.12 Decisions 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.12 Decisions. 
 
The arbitrator(s) shall issue a written decision, including findings of fact and the legal basis for 
the decision.  The arbitral decision shall be based on (i) the evidence in the record, (ii) the terms 
of the Related PJM Agreements, as applicable, (iii) applicable United States federal and state 
law, including the Federal Power Act and any applicable FERC regulations and decisions, and 
international treaties or agreements as applicable, and (iv) relevant decisions in previous 
arbitration proceedings.  The arbitrator(s) shall have no authority to revise or alter any provision 
of the Related PJM Agreements.  Any arbitral decision issued pursuant to these PJM Dispute 
Resolution Procedures that affects matters subject to the jurisdiction of FERC under Section 205 
of the Federal Power Act shall be filed with FERC.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.13 Costs 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.13 Costs.   
 
Unless the arbitrator(s) shall decide otherwise, the costs of the time, expenses, and other charges 
of the arbitrator(s) shall be borne by the parties to the dispute, with each side on an arbitrated 
issue bearing its pro-rata share of such costs, and each party to an arbitral proceeding shall bear 
its own costs and fees.  The arbitrator(s) may award all or a portion of the costs of the time, 
expenses, and other charges of the arbitrator(s), the costs of arbitration, attorney’s fees, and the 
costs of mediation, if any, to any party that substantially prevails on an issue determined by the 
arbitrator(s) to have been raised without a substantial basis.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 4. ARBITRATION --> OA 
Schedule 5 Sec 4.14 Enforcement 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4.14 Enforcement. 
 
If the decision of the arbitrator(s) is binding, the judgment may be entered on such arbitral award 
by any court having jurisdiction thereof; provided, however, that within one year of the issuance 
of the arbitral decision any party affected thereby may request FERC or any other federal, state, 
regulatory or judicial authority having jurisdiction to vacate, modify, or take such other action as 
may be appropriate with respect to any arbitral decision that is based upon an error of law, or is 
contrary to the statutes, rules, or regulations administered or applied by such authority.  Any 
party making or responding to, or intervening in proceedings resulting from, any such request, 
shall request the authority to adopt the resolution, if not clearly erroneous, of any issue of fact 
expressly or necessarily decided in the arbitral proceeding, whether or not the party participated 
in the arbitral proceeding. 
 

