[SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1-MARKET OPERATIONS - Part 1 of 4]

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.1 Introduction 
Effective Date: 1/1/2011 - Docket #: ER11-2527-000 - Page 1 
1.1 Introduction. 
 
This Schedule sets forth the scheduling, other procedures, and certain general provisions 
applicable to the operation of the PJM Interchange Energy Market within the PJM Region.  This 
Schedule addresses each of the three time-frames pertinent to the daily operation of the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market:  Prescheduling, Scheduling, and Dispatch.  This schedule also 
addresses the settlement of transactions in the single PJM Interchange Energy Market at two 
component settlement prices:  Day-Ahead prices and Real-Time prices.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.2 Cost-based Offers 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 1 
1.2 Cost-based Offers.  
 
Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all cost-based offers for energy or other services to 
be sold on the PJM Interchange Energy Market from generating resources shall not exceed the 
variable cost of producing such energy or other service, as determined in accordance with 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and applicable regulatory standards, requirements and 
determinations; provided that, a Market Seller may offer to the PJM Interchange Energy Market 
the right to call on energy from a resource the output of which has been sold on a bilateral basis, 
with the rate for such energy if called equal to the curtailment rate specified in the bilateral 
contract. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.2A Transmission Losses 
Effective Date: 8/1/2012 - Docket #: EL12-71-001 - Page 1 
1.2A Transmission Losses. 
 
1.2A.1  Description of Transmission Losses. 
 
Transmission losses refer to the loss of energy in the transmission of electricity from generation 
resources to load, which is dissipated as heat through transformers, transmission lines and other 
transmission facilities. 
 
1.2A.2  Inclusion of Transmission Losses. 
 
Whenever in this Schedule 1, transmission losses are included in the determination of a charge, 
credit, load (including deviations), or demand reduction, it is explicitly so stated and such 
included losses shall be those losses incurred on all Transmission Facilities (to facilitate such 
calculation, Transmission Owners shall ensure that all such facilities are included in the PJM 
network model) and those losses incurred on generator step-up transformers that a Market Seller 
has not elected to remove from the loss calculation.  Absent such explicit statement, such losses 
are not included in the determination. 
 
1.2A.3  Other Losses. 
 
Losses incurred on facilities other than those addressed in the preceding section may be included 
in the determination of charges, credits, load (including real-time deviations) or demand 
reductions, as determined by electric distribution companies, unless this Schedule explicitly 
excludes such losses. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.3 Definitions 
Effective Date: 3/1/2017 - Docket #: ER18-71-000 - Page 1 
1.3 [Reserved for Future Use] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.4 Market Buyers. 
Effective Date: 5/8/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1265-000 - Page 1 
1.4 Market Participant. 
 
1.4.1 Qualification. 
 
(a) To become a Market Participant, an Applicant shall submit an application to the Office of 
the Interconnection, in such form as shall be established by the Office of the Interconnection, and 
such further information detailed in Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
(b) An Applicant that is or will be a Load Serving Entity or that will purchase on behalf of or 
for ultimate delivery to a Load Serving Entity shall establish to the satisfaction of the Office of 
the Interconnection that the end-users that will be served through energy and related services 
purchased in the PJM Interchange Energy Market, are located electrically within the PJM 
Region, or will be brought within the PJM Region prior to any purchases from the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market.  Such Applicant shall further demonstrate that:  
 
i) The Load Serving Entity for the end users is or will be obligated to meet 
the requirements of the Reliability Assurance Agreement, as applicable; and  
 
ii) The Load Serving Entity for the end users has or will have arrangements 
in place for Network Transmission Service or Point-To-Point Transmission 
Service for all PJM Interchange Energy Market purchases. 
 
(c) An Applicant that is a Market Buyer and is not a Load Serving Entity or purchasing on 
behalf of or for ultimate delivery to a Load Serving Entity shall demonstrate that: 
 
i) The Applicant has obtained or will obtain Network Transmission Service 
or Point-to-Point Transmission Service for all PJM Interchange Energy Market 
purchases; and 
 
ii) The Applicant’s PJM Interchange Energy Market purchases will 
ultimately be delivered to a load in another Control Area that is recognized by 
NERC and that complies with NERC’s standards for operating and planning 
reliable bulk electric systems. 
 
(d) An Applicant shall not be required to obtain transmission service for purchases from the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market to cover quantity deviations from its sales in the Day-ahead 
Energy Market. 
 
(e) An Applicant applying to become a Market Participant shall demonstrate that it: 
 
i) is capable of complying with all applicable metering, data storage and 
transmission, and other reliability, operation, planning and accounting standards 
and requirements for the operation of the PJM Region and the PJM Markets, as 
applicable; 
 
ii) meets the creditworthiness standards established by the Office of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.4 Market Buyers. 
Effective Date: 5/8/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1265-000 - Page 2 
Interconnection and/or PJMSettlement, or has provided cash or a Credit Support 
Document acceptable to the Office of the Interconnection and/or PJMSettlement; 
and 
 
iii) has paid all applicable fees and reimbursed the Office of the 
Interconnection and/or PJMSettlement for all unusual or extraordinary costs of 
processing and evaluating its application to become a Market Participant, and has 
agreed in its application to subject any disputes arising from its application to the 
PJM Dispute Resolution Procedures. 
 
(f) The Applicant shall become a Market Participant upon a final favorable determination on 
its application by the Office of the Interconnection as specified below, which determination shall 
be made by the Office of the Interconnection in conjunction with input from PJMSettlement, and 
execution by the Applicant of counterparts of this Agreement. 
 
1.4.2 Submission of Information. 
 
The Applicant shall furnish all information reasonably requested by the Office of the 
Interconnection and/or PJMSettlement in order to determine the Applicant’s qualification to be a 
Market Participant and whether the entity should be allowed to remain a Market Participant.  The 
Office of the Interconnection and/or PJMSettlement may waive the submission of information 
relating to any of the foregoing criteria, to the extent the information in the Office of the 
Interconnection’s and/or PJMSettlement’s possession is sufficient to evaluate the application 
against such criteria. 
 
1.4.3 Fees and Costs. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall require all Applicants seeking to become a Market 
Participant to pay a uniform application fee, initially in the amount of $2,000, to defray the 
ordinary costs of processing such applications.  The application fee shall be revised from time to 
time as the Office of the Interconnection shall determine to be necessary to recover its ordinary 
costs of processing applications.  Any unusual or extraordinary costs incurred by the Office of 
the Interconnection in processing an application shall be reimbursed by the Applicant. 
 
1.4.4 Office of the Interconnection Determination. 
 
Upon submission of the information specified above, and such other information as shall 
reasonably be requested by the Office of the Interconnection and/or PJMSettlement, the Office of 
the Interconnection and/or PJMSettlement shall undertake an evaluation to determine whether 
the Applicant meets the criteria specified above, and in accordance with Tariff, Attachment Q.   
 
As soon as practicable, but in any event not later than ninety (90) days after submission of the 
foregoing information, or such later date as may be necessary to satisfy the requirements of the 
Agreements, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify the Applicant and the Members 
Committee of its determination, along with a written summary of the basis for the determination, 
and whether there are any actions the Applicant can take that might cause the Office of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.4 Market Buyers. 
Effective Date: 5/8/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1265-000 - Page 3 
Interconnection to change its determination, including but not limited to providing even further 
supplemental information, providing additional Restricted Collateral, the discontinuance of 
certain behaviors, implementing additional monitoring, and implementing of process or policy 
changes.  The Office of the Interconnection and/or PJMSettlement shall respond promptly to any 
reasonable and timely request by an Applicant or a Member for additional information regarding 
the basis for the Office of the Interconnection’s determination, and shall take such action as it 
shall deem appropriate in response to any request for reconsideration or other action submitted to 
the Office of the Interconnection not later than thirty (30) calendar days from the initial 
notification to the Members Committee. Notifications to the Members Committee shall be in 
compliance with Operating Agreement, section 18.17.1. 
 
1.4.5 Existing Participants. 
 
A Member that was previously qualified to participate as a Market Participant shall not 
automatically continue to be qualified to participate as a Market Participant under the 
Agreements. Rather, in order to retain its eligibility to continue to participate as a Market 
Participant in the PJM Markets, a Market Participant shall be subject to the requirements and 
ongoing risk evaluation in accordance with Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
1.4.6 Withdrawal. 
 
(a) An Internal Market Buyer that is a Load Serving Entity may withdraw from this 
Agreement by giving written notice to the Office of the Interconnection specifying an effective 
date of withdrawal not earlier than the effective date of (i) its withdrawal from the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement, or (ii) the assumption of its obligations under the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement by an agent that is a Market Buyer. 
 
(b) An External Market Buyer or an Internal Market Buyer that is not a Load Serving Entity 
may withdraw from this Agreement by giving written notice to the Office of the Interconnection 
specifying an effective date of withdrawal at least one day after the date of the notice. 
 
(c) Withdrawal from this Agreement shall not relieve a Market Participant of any obligation 
to pay for electric energy or related services purchased from the PJM Markets prior to such 
withdrawal, to pay its share of any fees and charges incurred or assessed by the Office of the 
Interconnection and/or PJMSettlement prior to the date of such withdrawal, maintain and/or 
provide sufficient credit support until all of its transactions in the PJM Markets have been 
satisfied, or to fulfill any obligation to provide indemnification for the consequences of acts, 
omissions or events occurring prior to such withdrawal; and provided, further, that withdrawal 
from this Agreement shall not relieve any Market Participant of any obligations it may have 
under, or constitute withdrawal from, any other Related PJM Agreement. 
 
(d) A Market Participant that has withdrawn from this Agreement may reapply to become a 
Market Participant in accordance with the provisions of this section 1.4, provided it is not in 
default of any obligation incurred under the Agreements. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.4 Market Buyers. 
Effective Date: 5/8/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1265-000 - Page 4 
1.4.7 Limitation, Suspension, and Termination. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection requires that Market Participants certify and provide 
information required and requested by the Office of the Interconnection and/or 
PJMSettlement at least annually as indicated in section 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.4.4 above and 
Tariff, Attachment Q.  If the Office of the Interconnection determines that the entity no 
longer satisfies its requirements to be a Market Participant, the Office of the Interconnection 
may limit and/or suspend that entity’s activity in the PJM Markets until such time as it can 
satisfy the requirements, and if the requirements are not satisfied the Office of the 
Interconnection may terminate that entity’s approval to be a Market Participant.  As soon as 
practicable, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify the entity and the Members 
Committee of its determination, along with a written summary of the basis for the 
determination, and whether there are any actions the entity can take that might cause the 
Office of the Interconnection to change its determination, including but not limited to 
providing even further additional information, providing additional Restricted Collateral, the 
discontinuance of certain behaviors, implementing additional monitoring, and implementing 
of process or policy changes. The Office of the Interconnection shall respond promptly to 
any reasonable and timely request by a Member for additional information regarding the 
basis for the Office of the Interconnection’s determination, and shall take such action as it 
shall deem appropriate in response to any request for reconsideration or other action 
submitted to the Office of the Interconnection not later than thirty (30) calendar days from 
the initial notification to the Members Committee.  Notifications to the Members Committee 
shall be in compliance with Operating Agreement, section 18.17.1. 
 
1.4.8.  Re-entry of Defaulting Market Participant.  
 
An Applicant who previously defaulted on any obligations owed to PJM and/or PJMSettlement 
that resulted in a loss to any PJM Market which was never cured, or who is not eligible for 
reinstatement to PJM membership pursuant to Operating Agreement, section 15.1, shall not be 
allowed to re-enter the PJM Markets.  In addition, PJM will evaluate relevant factors to 
determine if an Applicant seeking to participate in the PJM Markets under a different name, 
affiliation, or organization should be treated as the same Market Participant that experienced a 
previous default that resulted in a loss to the PJM Markets under this provision. Such factors 
may include, but are not limited to, the interconnectedness of the business relationships, overlap 
in relevant personnel, similarity of business activities, overlap of customer base, and the 
business engaged in prior to the attempted re-entry. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> 
OA  SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.4A Energy Storage Resource 
Participation 
Effective Date: 12/3/2019 - Docket #: ER19-469-004 - Page 1 
1.4A Energy Storage Resource Participation Model.  
 
1.4A.1 Qualification. 
 
 (a) An Energy Storage Resource may opt into and out of the Energy Storage 
Resource Participation Model on an annual basis, in accordance with the procedures and 
processes defined in the PJM Manuals. 
 
(b) Energy that an Energy Storage Resource Model Participant purchases 
from the PJM Interchange Energy Market must be Direct Charging Energy. 
 
(c) An Energy Storage Resource utilizing the Energy Storage Resource 
Participation Model shall arrange for Network Transmission Service or Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service for purchases of Non-Dispatched Charging Energy.  Network 
Transmission Service and Point-to-Point Transmission Service are not required for 
purchases of Dispatched Charging Energy. 
 
(d) Energy Storage Resource Model Participants shall be eligible to be dispatched 
for positive and negative megawatts as otherwise applicable, to set price at positive and 
negative megawatt points on their offer curve as otherwise applicable, and to self-
schedule positive and negative megawatt quantities, pursuant to the requirements of the 
PJM Manuals.  Energy Storage Resources in Continuous Mode shall specify a single 
energy offer curve with monotonically increasing dollar values including both positive 
and negative megawatt quantities.  
 
(e) Energy Storage Resource Model Participants shall be responsible for their own 
State of Charge Management, provided that they must comply with PJM operational 
orders regardless of the incidental impact on State of Charge. 
 
(f) Energy Storage Resource Model Participants may offer quantities (including 
charging and discharging) equivalent to 0.1 MW or greater into all applicable PJM 
markets. 
 
(g) In order to properly distinguish Direct Charging Energy from Load Serving 
Charging Energy, Energy Storage Resources that are distribution-connected or co-located 
with end-use load shall include systems that are capable of measuring the below 
categories of electric energy, unless a different configuration is agreed to by the electric 
distribution company, the Energy Storage Resource, and PJM. The categories are: i) 
electric energy that is withdrawn from the grid and stored in the Energy Storage 
Resource; ii) electric energy that is generated on-site by a resource other than the Energy 
Storage Resource (if any exists) and stored in the Energy Storage Resource; iii) electric 
energy that is discharged by the Energy Storage Resource and injected onto the grid; iv) 
electric energy that is discharged from the Energy Storage Resource and consumed by 
on-site end-use load that is not Station Power (if any such on-site end-use load exists). 
The measurement systems shall comply with the accuracy requirements for meters as 
described in the PJM Manual 01. Additional details for the configuration of such 
measurement systems under various specific configurations are specified in PJM Manual 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> 
OA  SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.4A Energy Storage Resource 
Participation 
Effective Date: 12/3/2019 - Docket #: ER19-469-004 - Page 2 
14D. 
 
If the distribution utility is unwilling or unable to net out from the host customer’s retail 
bill Direct Charging Energy associated with an Energy Storage Resource that is 
distribution-connected or co-located with end-use load that is not Station Power, PJM 
shall not bill the Energy Storage Resource for any Direct Charging Energy. 
Energy Storage Resources shall only be credited for sale transactions of electric energy in 
PJM markets if that same sale transaction of electric energy is not also credited at retail. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.4B DER Aggregator Participation Model 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 1 
1.4B DER Aggregator Participation Model 
 
 (a) DER Aggregators providing capacity using a DER Capacity Aggregation Resource 
shall be subject to the Day-ahead Energy Market must-offer requirement described in Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.10.1A(d) and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
1.10.1A(d), based on the technology of the Component DER within the DER Aggregation 
Resource linked to the DER Capacity Aggregation Resource, in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
 (b) DER Aggregation Resources are subject to offer price cap and associated three 
pivotal supplier test provisions of Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.4. 
 
 (c) A DER Capacity Aggregation Resource shall be subject to a MOPR Floor Offer 
Price in accordance with the provisions applicable to MOPR Floor Offer Price for Generation 
Capacity Resources, as described in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14(h-2), and Market Seller 
Offer Cap for Generation Capacity Resources in a manner consistent with the provisions applicable 
to Market Seller Offer Cap for Generation Capacity Resources, as described in Tariff, Attachment 
DD, section 6.4 and Tariff, Attachment M-Appendix, section II.E, based on the underlying 
technology of the Component DER. 
 
A DER Capacity Aggregation Resource may segment offers for the Component DER subject to 
mitigation, based on the underlying technology of the Component DER in the DER Capacity 
Aggregation Resource, and further described in the PJM Manuals.  
   
If a DER Capacity Aggregation Resource is subject to the Minimum Floor Offer Price pursuant to 
Tariff, Attachment DD, sections 5.14(h-2), the Capacity Market Seller that owns or controls such 
resources may submit a Sell Offer with a Minimum Floor Offer Price of no lower than the MW-
weighted average of the applicable MOPR Floor Offer Prices (zero if not applicable) of the 
aggregated resources in such Sell Offer.   
 
 (d) Projected PJM Market Revenues for DER Capacity Aggregation Resources 
subject to the Minimum Floor Offer Price or Market Seller Offer Cap shall be determined in 
accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.8(d-1).  The determination of PJM Market 
Revenues by the Market Monitoring Unit or the Office of the Interconnection shall utilize either 
the hourly output profiles, or the Projected EAS Dispatch, as appropriate. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.4C Participation of Hybrid Resources 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 1 
1.4C Participation of Hybrid Resources. 
Hybrid Resources may participate in markets according to the following provisions in this 
section 1.4C, as further detailed in the PJM Manuals. Hybrid Resources are settled in markets as 
a single unit. 
(a) Energy that the Market Participant of an Open-Loop Hybrid Resource purchases from the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market for charging the storage component must be Direct Charging 
Energy.  Direct Charging Energy shall not be purchased for charging the storage component of 
Closed-Loop Hybrid Resources. 
(b) The Market Participant of a Hybrid Resource with a storage component capable of charging 
from the grid shall arrange for Network Integration Transmission Service or Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service for purchases of Non-Dispatched Charging Energy.  Network Integration 
Transmission Service and Point-to-Point Transmission Service are not required for purchases of 
Dispatched Charging Energy. 
(c) Hybrid Resources shall be eligible to be dispatched for positive megawatts as otherwise 
applicable, to set price at positive megawatt points on their offer curve as otherwise applicable, 
and to self-schedule positive megawatt quantities, pursuant to the requirements of the PJM 
Manuals.  Such Hybrid Resources shall specify a single energy offer curve with monotonically 
increasing dollar values.  Open-Loop Hybrid Resources shall be eligible to be dispatched for 
negative megawatts (i.e., charging) as otherwise applicable, to set price at negative megawatt 
points on their offer curve as otherwise applicable, and to self-schedule negative megawatt 
quantities, pursuant to the requirements of the PJM Manuals.  In addition, such Hybrid 
Resources operating in Continuous Mode shall specify a single energy offer curve with 
monotonically increasing dollar values including both positive and negative megawatt quantities. 
(d) Hybrid Resources with a storage component shall be responsible for management of their 
own State of Charge, provided that they must comply with PJM operational orders regardless of 
the incidental impact on State of Charge. 
(e) Hybrid Resources may offer quantities equivalent to 0.1 MW or greater into all applicable 
PJM markets. 
(f) For a Hybrid Resource with a variable resource component and a storage component: during 
intervals in which the storage component is not actively managing the net output of such 
resource, the Market Participant of such resource shall indicate such status to PJM. 
(g) In order to properly distinguish Direct Charging Energy from Load Serving Charging Energy, 
Open-Loop Hybrid Resources that are distribution-connected or co-located with end-use load 
shall include systems that are capable of measuring the below categories of electric energy, 
unless a different configuration is agreed to by the electric distribution company, the Energy 
Storage Resource, and PJM.  The categories are:  i) electric energy that is withdrawn from the 
grid and stored in the energy storage component;  ii) electric energy that is generated on-site by a 
resource other than the energy storage component and stored in the energy storage component;  
iii) electric energy that is discharged by the energy storage component and injected onto the grid;  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.4C Participation of Hybrid Resources 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 2 
and iv) electric energy that is discharged from the energy storage component and consumed by 
on-site end-use load that is not Station Power (if any such on-site end-use load exists).  The 
measurement systems shall comply with the accuracy requirements for meters as described in 
PJM Manual 01.  Additional details for the configuration of such measurement systems under 
various specific configurations are specified in PJM Manual 14D. 
If the distribution utility is unwilling or unable to net out from the host customer’s retail bill 
Direct Charging Energy associated with an Open-Loop Hybrid Resource that is distribution-
connected or co-located with end-use load that is not Station Power, then PJM shall not bill the 
corresponding Market Participant for any Direct Charging Energy. 
Market Participants shall only be credited for sale transactions in PJM markets of electric energy 
produced from Open-Loop Hybrid Resources if that same sale transaction of electric energy is 
not also credited at retail. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.4D Participation of Mixed Technology Fac 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 1 
1.4D Participation of Mixed Technology Facilities. 
A Mixed Technology Facility with components that are physically incapable of operating 
independently are modeled and participate in capacity and energy markets as a single Hybrid 
Resource.  A Mixed Technology Facility with a non-inverter generation component and an 
intermittent component is eligible to participate as Co-Located Resources only. 
For a Mixed Technology Facility that is eligible to participate in capacity and energy 
markets as either a Hybrid Resource or as multiple Co-Located Resources, the modeling 
classification chosen for the energy market and capacity market modeling shall match for the 
applicable Delivery Year. 
The Co-Located Resources at a single Mixed Technology Facility participate as separate 
resources with separate market offers and settlements. 
For a Mixed Technology Facility within the new resource queue process, the modeling 
choice must be made with notice to the Office of the Interconnection no later than six (6) months 
in advance of its initial start in the energy markets. 
 For an existing Mixed Technology Facility that has no components that participate in the 
capacity market, and that is eligible to participate in the energy markets as either a Hybrid 
Resource or as multiple Co-Located Resources, the modeling classification can be changed once 
per calendar year with notice to PJM by no later than May 30 for the upcoming January 1 to 
December 31 participation months.  Once a status is chosen, it remains until another request is 
received.   
 For a Mixed Technology Facility that has components that participate in the capacity 
market, and that is eligible to participate in the capacity market as either a Hybrid Resource or as 
multiple Co-Located Resources, the modeling classification election must be indicated pursuant 
to the rules outlined in RAA, Schedule 9.2. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.5 Market Sellers 
Effective Date: 1/1/2011 - Docket #: ER11-2527-000 - Page 1 
1.5 Market Sellers. 
 
1.5.1 Qualification. 
 
A Member that demonstrates to the Office of the Interconnection that the Member meets the 
standards for the issuance of an order mandating the provision of transmission service under 
section 211 of the Federal Power Act, as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 1992, may 
become a Market Seller upon execution of this Agreement and submission to the Office of the 
Interconnection of the applicable Offer Data in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  
All Members that are Market Buyers shall become Market Sellers upon submission to the Office 
of the Interconnection of the applicable Offer Data in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
 
1.5.2 Withdrawal. 
 
(a) A Market Seller may withdraw from this Agreement by giving written notice to the 
Office of the Interconnection specifying an effective date of withdrawal at least one day after the 
date of the notice; provided, however, that withdrawal shall not relieve a Market Seller of any 
obligation to deliver electric energy or related services to the PJM Interchange Energy Market 
pursuant to an offer made prior to such withdrawal, to pay its share of any fees and charges 
incurred or assessed by PJMSettlement, on behalf of itself or the Office of the Interconnection 
prior to the date of such withdrawal, or to fulfill any obligation to provide indemnification for the 
consequences of acts, omissions, or events occurring prior to such withdrawal; and provided, 
further, that withdrawal shall not relieve any entity that is a Market Seller and is also a Market 
Buyer of any obligations it may have as a Market Buyer under, or constitute withdrawal as a 
Market Buyer from, this Agreement or any other Related PJM Agreement. 
 
(b) A Market Seller that has withdrawn from this Agreement may reapply to become a 
Market Seller at any time, provided it is not in default with respect to any obligation incurred 
under this Agreement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.5A Economic Load Response Participant 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 1 
1.5A Economic Load Response Participant. 
 
As used in this section 1.5A, the term “end-use customer” refers to an individual location or 
aggregation of locations that consume electricity as identified by a unique electric distribution 
company account number. 
 
1.5A.1 Qualification. 
 
A Member or Special Member that is an end-use customer, Load Serving Entity or Curtailment 
Service Provider that has the ability to cause a reduction in demand as metered on an electric 
distribution company account basis (or for non-interval metered residential Direct Load Control 
customers, as metered on a statistical sample of electric distribution company accounts utilizing 
current data, as described in the PJM Manuals) or has an On-Site Generator that enables demand 
reduction may become an Economic Load Response Participant by complying with the 
requirements of the applicable Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority and all other 
applicable federal, state and local regulatory entities together with this section 1.5A including, 
but not limited to, section 1.5A.3 below.  A Member or Special Member may aggregate multiple 
individual end-use customer sites to qualify as an Economic Load Response Participant, subject 
to the requirements of section 1.5A.10 below. 
 
1.5A.2 Special Member. 
 
Entities that are not Members and desire to participate solely in the Real-time Energy Market by 
reducing demand may become a Special Member by paying an annual membership fee of $500 
plus 10% of each payment owed by PJMSettlement for a Load Reduction Event not to exceed 
$5,000 in a calendar year.  For entities that become Special Members pursuant to this section, the 
following obligations are waived:  (i) the $1,500 membership application fee set forth in 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.4.3 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 1.4.3; (ii) liability under Operating Agreement, section 15.2 for Member 
defaults; (iii) thirty days notice for waiting period; and (iv) the requirement for 24/7 control 
center coverage.  In addition, such Members shall not have voting privileges in committees or 
sector designations, and shall not be permitted to form user groups.  On January 1 of a calendar 
year, a Special Member under this section, at its sole election, may become a Member rather than 
a Special Member subject to all rules governing being a Member, including regular application 
and membership fee requirements. 
 
1.5A.3 Registration. 
 
1. Prior to participating in the PJM Interchange Energy Market or Ancillary Services 
Market, Economic Load Response Participants must complete either the Economic Load 
Response or Economic Load Response Regulation Only Registration Form posted on the Office 
of the Interconnection’s website and submit such form to the Office of the Interconnection for 
each end-use customer, or aggregation of end-use customers, pursuant to the requirements set 
forth in the PJM Manuals.  The Curtailment Service Provide shall not include Critical Natural 
Gas Infrastructure end-use customers in the registration.  Notwithstanding the below sub-
provisions, Economic Load Response Regulation Only registrations and Economic Load 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.5A Economic Load Response Participant 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 2 
Response residential customer registrations not participating in the Day-ahead Energy Market 
will not require the identification of the relevant Load Serving Entity, nor will such relevant 
Load Serving Entity be notified of such registration or requested to verify such registration.  All 
other below sub-provisions apply equally to Economic Load Response Regulation Only 
registrations, and Economic Load Response residential customer registrations not participating in 
the Day-ahead Energy Market, as well as Economic Load Response registrations. 
 
 a. For end-use customers of an electric distribution company that distributed more 
than 4 million MWh in the previous fiscal year: 
 
i. After confirming that an entity has met all of the qualifications to be an Economic 
Load Response Participant, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify the  
relevant electric distribution company or Load Serving Entity, as determined 
based upon the type of registration submitted (i.e., either an Economic Load 
Response registration, Economic Load Response residential customer 
registrations not participating in the Day-ahead Energy Market,  or an Economic 
Load Response Regulation Only registration), of an Economic Load Response 
Participant’s registration and request verification as to whether the load that may 
be reduced is subject to another contractual obligation or to laws or regulations of 
the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority that prohibit or condition the 
end-use customer’s participation in PJM’s Economic Load Response Program.  
The relevant electric distribution company or Load Serving Entity shall have ten 
Business Days to respond.  A relevant electric distribution company or Load 
Serving Entity which seeks to assert that the laws or regulations of the Relevant 
Electric Retail Regulatory Authority prohibit or condition (which condition the 
electric distribution company or Load Serving Entity asserts has not been 
satisfied) the end-use customer's participation in PJM’s Economic Load Response 
program shall provide to PJM, within the referenced ten Business Day review 
period, either:  (a) an order, resolution or ordinance of the Relevant Electric Retail 
Regulatory Authority prohibiting or conditioning the end-use customer's 
participation, (b) an opinion of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory 
Authority’s legal counsel attesting to the existence of a regulation or law 
prohibiting or conditioning the end-use customer's participation, or (c) an opinion 
of the state Attorney General, on behalf of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory 
Authority, attesting to the existence of a regulation or law prohibiting or 
conditioning the end-use customer's participation. 
 
ii. In the absence of a response from the relevant electric distribution company or 
Load Serving Entity within the referenced ten Business Day review period, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall assume that the load to be reduced is not 
subject to other contractual obligations or to laws or regulations of the Relevant 
Electric Retail Regulatory Authority that prohibit or condition the end-use 
customer’s participation in PJM’s Economic Load Response Program, and the 
Office of the Interconnection shall accept the registration, provided it meets the 
requirements of this section 1.5A. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.5A Economic Load Response Participant 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 3 
 b. For end-use customers of an electric distribution company that distributed  4 
million MWh or less in the previous fiscal year: 
 
i. After confirming that an entity has met all of the qualifications to be an Economic 
Load Response Participant, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify the 
relevant electric distribution company or Load Serving Entity, as determined 
based upon the type of registration submitted (i.e., either an Economic Load 
Response registration, Economic Load Response residential customer 
registrations not participating in the Day-ahead Energy Market,  or an Economic 
Load Response Regulation Only registration), of an Economic Load Response 
Participant’s registration and request verification as to whether the load that may 
be reduced is permitted to participate in PJM’s Economic Load Response 
Program.  The relevant electric distribution company or Load Serving Entity shall 
have ten Business Days to respond.  If the relevant electric distribution company 
or Load Serving Entity verifies that the load that may be reduced is permitted or 
conditionally permitted (which condition the electric distribution company or 
Load Serving Entity asserts has been satisfied) to participate in the Economic 
Load Response Program, then the electric distribution company or the Load 
Serving Entity must provide to the Office of the Interconnection within the 
referenced ten Business Day review period evidence from the Relevant Electric 
Retail Regulatory Authority permitting or conditionally permitting the Economic 
Load Response Participant to participate in the Economic Load Response 
Program.  Evidence from the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority 
permitting the Economic Load Response Participant to participate in the 
Economic Load Response Program shall be in the form of either: (a) an order, 
resolution or ordinance of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority 
permitting or conditionally permitting the end-use customer's participation, (b) an 
opinion of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority’s legal counsel 
attesting to the existence of a regulation or law permitting or conditionally 
permitting the end-use customer's participation, or (c) an opinion of the state 
Attorney General, on behalf of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority, 
attesting to the existence of a regulation or law permitting or conditionally 
permitting the end-use customer's participation. 
 
ii. In the absence of a response from the relevant electric distribution company or 
Load Serving Entity within the referenced ten Business Day review period, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall reject the registration.  If it is able to do so in 
compliance with this section 1.5A, including this subsection 1.5A.3, the 
Economic Load Response Participant may submit a new registration for 
consideration if a prior registration has been rejected pursuant to this subsection. 
 
2. In the event that the end-use customer is subject to another contractual obligation, special 
settlement terms may be employed to accommodate such contractual obligation.  The Office of 
the Interconnection shall notify the end-use customer or appropriate Curtailment Service 
Provider, or relevant electric distribution company and/or Load Serving Entity that the Economic 
Load Response Participant has or has not met the requirements of this section 1.5A.  An end-use 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.5A Economic Load Response Participant 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 4 
customer that desires not to be simultaneously registered to reduce demand under the Emergency 
Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Programs and under this section, upon one-
day advance notice to the Office of the Interconnection, may switch its registration for reducing 
demand, if it has been registered to reduce load for 15 consecutive days under its current 
registration. 
 
1.5A.3.01 Economic Load Response Registrations in Effect as of August 28, 2009 
 
1. For end-use customers of an electric distribution company that distributed more than 4 
million MWh in the previous fiscal year: 
 
 a. Effective as of the later of either August 28, 2009 (the effective date of Wholesale 
Competition in Regions with Organized Electric Markets, Order 719-A, 128 FERC ¶ 61,059 
(2009) (“Order 719-A”)) or the effective date of a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority 
law or regulation prohibiting or conditioning (which condition the electric distribution company 
or Load Serving Entity asserts has not been satisfied) the end-use customer’s participation in 
PJM’s Economic Load Response Program, the existing Economic Load Response Participant’s 
registration submitted to the Office of the Interconnection prior to August 28, 2009, will be 
deemed to be terminated upon an electric distribution company or Load Serving Entity 
submitting to the Office of the Interconnection either:  (a) an order, resolution or ordinance of the 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority prohibiting or conditioning the end-use customer’s 
participation, (b) an opinion of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority’s legal counsel 
attesting to the existence of a regulation or law prohibiting or conditioning the end-use 
customer’s participation, or (c) an opinion of the state Attorney General, on behalf of the 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority, attesting to the existence of a regulation or law 
prohibiting or conditioning the end-use customer’s participation.   
 
i. For registrations terminated pursuant to this section, all Economic Load 
Response Participant activity incurred prior to the termination date of the 
registration shall be settled by PJMSettlement in accordance with the terms and 
conditions contained in the PJM Tariff, PJM Operating Agreement and PJM 
Manuals. 
 
2. For end-use customers of an electric distribution company that distributed 4 million 
MWh or less in the previous fiscal year: 
 
 a. Effective as of August 28, 2009 (the effective date of Order 719-A), an existing 
Economic Load Response Participant's registration submitted to the Office of the Interconnection 
prior to August 28, 2009, will be deemed to be terminated unless an electric distribution 
company or Load Serving Entity verifies that the existing registration is permitted or 
conditionally permitted (which condition the electric distribution company or Load Serving 
Entity asserts has been satisfied) to participate in the Economic Load Response Program and 
provides evidence to the Office of the Interconnection documenting that the permission or 
conditional permission is pursuant to the laws or regulations of the Relevant Electric Retail 
Regulatory Authority.  If the electric distribution company or Load Serving Entity verifies that 
the existing registration is permitted or conditionally permitted (which condition the electric 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.5A Economic Load Response Participant 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 5 
distribution company or Load Serving Entity asserts has been satisfied) to participate in the 
Economic Load Response Program, then, within ten Business Days of verifying such permission 
or conditional permission, the electric distribution company or Load Serving Entity must provide 
to the Office of the Interconnection evidence from the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory 
Authority permitting or conditionally permitting the Economic Load Response Participant to 
participate in the Economic Load Response Program.  Evidence from the Relevant Electric 
Retail Regulatory Authority permitting or conditionally permitting the Economic Load Response 
Participant to participate in the Economic Load Response Program shall be in the form of either: 
(a) an order, resolution or ordinance of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority 
permitting or conditionally permitting the end-use customer’s participation, (b) an opinion of the 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority’s legal counsel attesting to the existence of a 
regulation or law permitting or conditionally permitting the end-use customer’s participation, or 
(c) an opinion of the state Attorney General, on behalf of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory 
Authority, attesting to the existence of a regulation or law permitting or conditionally permitting 
the end-use customer’s participation. 
 
i. For registrations terminated pursuant to this section, all Economic Load 
Response Participant activity incurred prior to the termination date of the 
registration shall be settled by PJMSettlement in accordance with the terms and 
conditions contained in the PJM Tariff, PJM Operating Agreement and PJM 
Manuals. 
 
3. All registrations submitted to the Office of the Interconnection on or after August 28, 
2009, including requests to extend existing registrations, will be processed by the Office of the 
Interconnection in accordance with the provisions of this section 1.5A, including this subsection 
1.5A.3. 
 
1.5A.3. 02 Economic Load Response Regulation Only Registrations. 
 
An Economic Load Response Regulation Only registration allows end-use customer 
participation in the Regulation market only, and may be submitted by a Curtailment Service 
Provider that is different than the Curtailment Service Provider that submits an Emergency Load 
Response Program registration, Pre-Emergency Load Response Program registration or 
Economic Load Response registration for the same end-use customer. An end-use customer that 
is registered as Economic Load Response Regulation Only shall not be permitted to register 
and/or participate in any other Ancillary Service markets at the same time, but may have a 
second, simultaneously existing Economic Load Response registration to participate in the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market as set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
 
1.5A.4 Metering and Electronic Dispatch Signal. 
 
a) The Curtailment Service Provider is responsible for ensuring that end-use customers have 
metering equipment that provides integrated hourly kWh values on an electric distribution 
company account basis.  For non-interval metered residential customers not participating in the 
pilot program under section 1.5A.7 below, the Curtailment Service Provider must ensure that a 
representative sample of residential customers has metering equipment that provides integrated 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.5A Economic Load Response Participant 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 6 
hourly kWh values on an electric distribution company account basis, as set forth in the PJM 
Manuals.  The metering equipment shall either meet the electric distribution company 
requirements for accuracy, or have a maximum error of two percent over the full range of the 
metering equipment (including potential transformers and current transformers) and the metering 
equipment and associated data shall meet the requirements set forth herein and in the PJM 
Manuals. End-use customer reductions in demand  must be  metered by recording integrated 
hourly values for On-Site Generators running to serve local load (net of output used by the On-
Site Generator), or by metering load on an electric distribution company account basis and 
comparing actual metered load to its Customer Baseline Load, calculated pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.3A and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 3.3A, or on an alternative metering basis approved by the Office of the 
Interconnection and agreed upon by all relevant parties, including any Curtailment Service 
Provider, electric distribution company and end-use customer.  To qualify for compensation for 
such load reductions that are not metered directly by the Office of the Interconnection, hourly 
data reflecting meter readings for each day during which the load reduction occurred and all 
associated days to determine the reduction must be submitted to the Office of the Interconnection 
in accordance with the PJM Manuals within 60 days of the load reduction. 
 
Curtailment Service Providers that have end-use customers that will participate in the Regulation 
market may be permitted to use Sub-metered load data instead of load data at the electric 
distribution company account number level for Regulation measurement and verification as set 
forth in the PJM Manuals and subject to the following:  
 
a. Curtailment Service Providers, must clearly identify for the Office of the 
Interconnection all electrical devices that will provide Regulation and identify all 
other devices used for similar processes within the same Location that will not 
provide Regulation.  The Location must contribute to management of frequency 
control on the PJM electric grid or PJM shall deny use of Sub-metered load data 
for the Location. 
 
b. If the registration to participate in the Regulation market contains an aggregation 
of Locations, the relevant Curtailment Service Provider will provide the Office of 
the Interconnection with load data for each Location’s Sub-meter through an 
after-the-fact load data submission process.   
 
c. The Office of the Interconnection may conduct random, unannounced audits of all  
Locations that are registered to participate in the Regulation market to ensure that 
devices that are registered by the Curtailment Service Providers as providing  
Regulation service are not otherwise being offset by a change in usage of other 
devices within the same Location. 
 
d. The Office of the Interconnection may suspend the Regulation market activity of 
Economic Load Response Participants, including Curtailment Service Providers, 
that do not comply with the Economic Load Response and Regulation market 
requirements as set forth in Schedule 1 and the PJM Manuals, and may refer the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.5A Economic Load Response Participant 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 7 
matter to the Market Monitoring Unit and/or the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission Office of Enforcement.  
 
b) Curtailment Service Providers shall be responsible for maintaining, or ensuring that 
Economic Load Response Participants maintain, the capability to receive and act upon an 
electronic dispatch signal from the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with any 
standards and specifications contained in the PJM Manuals. 
 
1.5A.5 On-Site Generators. 
 
An Economic Load Response Participant that intends to use an On-Site Generator for the 
purpose of reducing demand to participate in the PJM Interchange Energy Market shall represent 
to the Office of the Interconnection in writing that it holds all necessary environmental permits 
applicable to the operation of the On-Site Generator.  Unless notified otherwise, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall deem such representation applies to each time the On-Site Generator is 
used to reduce demand to enable participation in the PJM Interchange Energy Market and that 
the On-Site Generator is being operated in compliance with all applicable permits, including any 
emissions, run-time limits or other operational constraints that may be imposed by such permits. 
 
1.5A.6 Variable-Load Customers. 
 
The loads of an Economic Load Response Participant shall be categorized as variable or non-
variable at the time the load is registered, based on hourly load data for the most recent 60 days 
provided by the Market Participant in the registration process; provided, however, that any 
alternative means of making such determination when 60 days of data is not available shall be 
subject to review and approval by the Office of the Interconnection and provided further that 60 
days of hourly load data shall not be required on an individual customer basis for non-interval 
metered residential or Small Commercial Customers that provide Economic Load Response 
through a direct load control program under which an electric distribution company, Load 
Serving Entity, or CSP has direct control over such customer’s load, without reliance upon any 
action by such customer to reduce load.  Non-Variable Loads shall be those for which the 
Customer Baseline Load calculation and adjustment methods prescribed by Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.3A.2 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 3.3A.2 and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.3A.3 and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.3A.3 result in a relative root mean 
square hourly error of twenty percent or less compared to the actual hourly loads based on the 
hourly load data provided in the registration process and using statistical methods prescribed in 
the PJM Manuals.  All other loads shall be Variable Loads. 
 
1.5A.7 Non-Hourly Metered Customer Pilot. 
 
Non-hourly metered customers may participate in the PJM Interchange Energy Market as 
Economic Load Response Participants on a pilot basis under the following circumstances.  The 
Curtailment Service Provider or PJM must propose an alternate method for measuring hourly 
demand reductions.  The Office of the Interconnection shall approve alternate measurement 
mechanisms on a case-by-case basis for a time specified by the Office of the Interconnection 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.5A Economic Load Response Participant 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 8 
(“Pilot Period”).  Demand reductions by non-hourly metered customers using alternate 
measurement mechanisms on a pilot basis shall be limited to a combined total of 500 MW of 
reductions in the Emergency Load Response Program, Pre-Emergency Load Response Program 
and the PJM Interchange Energy Market or Synchronized Reserve market.  With the sole 
exception of the requirement for hourly metering as set forth in section 1.5A.4 above, non-hourly 
metered customers that qualify as Economic Load Response Participants pursuant to this section 
1.5A.7 shall be subject to the rules and procedures for participation by Economic Load Response 
Participants in the PJM Interchange Energy Market, including, without limitation, the Net 
Benefits Test and the requirement for dispatch by the Office of the Interconnection.  Following 
completion of a Pilot Period, the alternate method shall be evaluated by the Office of the 
Interconnection to determine whether such alternate method should be included in the PJM 
Manuals as an accepted measurement mechanism for demand reductions in the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market. 
 
1.5A.8 Batch Load Economic Load Response Participant Resource Provision of 
Synchronized Reserve or Secondary Reserve. 
 
  (a) A Batch Load Economic Load Response Participant resource may provide 
Synchronized Reserve or Secondary Reserve in the PJM Interchange Energy Market provided it 
has pre-qualified by providing the Office of the Interconnection with documentation acceptable 
to the Office of the Interconnection that shows six months of one minute incremental load 
history of the Batch Load Economic Load Response Participant resource, or in the event such 
history is unavailable, other such information or data acceptable to the Office of the 
Interconnection to demonstrate that the resource meets the definition of “Batch Load Economic 
Load Response Participant resource” pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
1.3.1A.001 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.3.1A.001.  
This requirement is a one-time pre-qualification requirement for a Batch Load Economic Load 
Response Participant resource. 
 
  (b) A Batch Load Economic Load Response Participant resource that is consuming 
energy at the start of a Synchronized Reserve Event, or, if committed to provide Secondary 
Reserve, at the time of a dispatch instruction from the Office of the Interconnection to reduce 
load, shall respond to the Office of the Interconnection’s calling of a Synchronized Reserve 
Event, or to such instruction to reduce load, by reducing load as quickly as it is capable and by 
keeping its consumption at or near zero megawatts for the entire length of the Synchronized 
Reserve Event following the reduction, or, in the case of Secondary Reserve, until a dispatch 
instruction that load reductions are no longer required.  A Batch Load Economic Load Response 
Participant resource that has reduced its consumption of energy for its production processes to 
minimal or zero megawatts before the start of a Synchronized Reserve Event (or, in the case of 
Secondary Reserve, before a dispatch instruction to reduce load) shall respond to the Office of 
the Interconnection’s calling of a Synchronized Reserve Event (or such instruction to reduce 
load) by reducing any load that is present at the time the Synchronized Reserve Event is called 
(or at the time of such instruction to reduce load) as quickly as it is capable, delaying the restart 
of its production processes, and keeping its consumption at or near zero megawatts for the entire 
length of the Synchronized Reserve Event following any such reduction (or, in the case of 
Secondary Reserve, until a dispatch instruction that load reductions are no longer required).  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.5A Economic Load Response Participant 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 9 
Failure to respond as described in this section shall be considered non-compliance with the 
Office of the Interconnection’s dispatch instruction associated with a Synchronized Reserve 
Event, or as applicable, associated with an instruction to a resource committed to provide 
Secondary Reserve to reduce load. 
 
1.5A.9 Day-ahead and Real-time Energy Market Participation. 
 
Economic Load Response Participants shall be compensated under Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 3.3A.5 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
3.3A.5 and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.3A.6 and the parallel provisions of 
Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.3A.6 only if they participate in the Day-ahead or Real-
time Energy Markets as a dispatchable resource. 
 
1.5A.10 Aggregation for Economic Load Response Registrations. 
 
The purpose for aggregation is to allow the participation of end-use customers in the Energy 
Market that can provide less than 0.1 megawatt of demand response when they currently have no 
alternative opportunity to participate on an individual basis or can provide less than 0.1 
megawatt of demand response in the Secondary Reserve, Synchronized Reserve or Regulation  
markets when they currently have no alternative opportunity to participate on an individual basis. 
Aggregations pursuant to section 1.5A.1 above shall be subject to the following requirements: 
 
 i. All end-use customers in an aggregation shall be specifically identified; 
 
 ii. All end-use customers in an aggregation shall be served by the same 
electric distribution company or Load Serving Entity where the electric distribution 
company is the Load Serving Entity for all end-use customers in the aggregation.  
Residential customers that are part of an aggregate that does not participate in the Day- 
Ahead Energy Market do not need to share the same Load Serving Entity.  If the 
aggregation will provide Synchronized Reserves, all customers in the aggregation must 
also be part of the same Synchronized Reserve sub-zone; 
 
 iii. All end-use customers in an aggregation that settle at Transmission Zone, 
existing load aggregate, or node prices shall be located in the same Transmission Zone, 
existing load aggregate or at the same node, respectively; 
 
 iv. A single CBL for the aggregation shall be used to determine settlements 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.3A.5 and the parallel provisions 
of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.3A.5 and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 3.3A.6 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
3.3A.6; 
 
 v. If the aggregation will only provide energy to the market then only one 
end-use customer within the aggregation shall have the ability to reduce more than 0.099 
megawatt of load unless the Curtailment Service Provider, Load Serving Entity and PJM 
approve. If the aggregation will provide an Ancillary Service to the market then only one 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.5A Economic Load Response Participant 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 10 
end-use customer within the aggregation shall have the ability to reduce more than 0.099 
megawatt of load unless the Curtailment Service Provider, Load Serving Entity and PJM 
approve; 
 
 vi. Each end-use customer site must meet the requirements for market 
participation by an Economic Load Response Participant resource except for the 0.1 
megawatt minimum load reduction requirement for energy or the 0.1 megawatt minimum 
load reduction requirement for Ancillary Services; and 
 
 vii. An end-use customer’s participation in the Energy and Ancillary Services 
markets shall be administered under one economic registration. 
 
1.5A.10.01 Aggregation for Economic Load Response Regulation Only Registrations 
The purpose for aggregation is to allow the participation of end-use customers in the Regulation 
market that can provide less than 0.1 megawatt of demand response when they currently have no 
alternative opportunity to participate on an individual basis. Aggregations pursuant to section 
1.5A.1 above shall be subject to the following requirements: 
 
i. All end-use customers in an aggregation shall be specifically identified; 
ii. All end-use customers in the aggregation must be served by the same electric 
distribution company and must also be part of the same Transmission Zone; and  
iii. Each end-use customer site must meet the requirements for market participation 
by an Economic Load Response Participant resource except for the 0.1 megawatt 
minimum load reduction requirement for Regulation service. 
 
1.5A.11 Reporting 
 
  (a) PJM will post on its website a report of demand response activity, and will 
provide a summary thereof to the PJM Markets and Reliability Committee on an annual basis. 
 
  (b) As PJM receives evidence from the electric distribution companies or Load 
Serving Entities pursuant to section 1.5A.3 above, PJM will post on its website a list of those 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authorities that the electric distribution companies or Load 
Serving Entities assert prohibit or condition retail participation in PJM’s Economic Load 
Response Program together with a corresponding reference to the Relevant Electric Retail 
Regulatory Authority evidence that is provided to PJM by the electric distribution companies or 
Load Serving Entities. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.6 Office of the Interconnection 
Effective Date: 11/4/2014 - Docket #: ER14-623-001 - Page 1 
1.6 Office of the Interconnection.  
 
1.6.1 Operation of the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall operate the PJM Interchange Energy Market in 
accordance with this Agreement.  
 
1.6.2 Scope of Services.  
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall perform the services pertaining to the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market specified in this Agreement, including but not limited to the following:  
 
i) Administer the PJM Interchange Energy Market as part of the PJM Region, including 
scheduling and dispatching of generation resources, accounting for transactions, maintaining 
appropriate records, and monitoring the compliance of Market Participants with the provisions of 
this Agreement, all in accordance with applicable provisions of the Operating Agreement, and 
the Schedules to this Agreement; 
 
ii) Review and evaluate the qualification of entities to be Market Buyers, Market Sellers, or 
Economic Load Response Participants under applicable provisions of this Agreement; 
 
iii) Coordinate, in accordance with applicable provisions of this Agreement, the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement, and the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, maintenance 
schedules for generation and transmission resources operated as part of the PJM Region; 
 
iv) Provide or coordinate the provision of ancillary services necessary for the operation of 
the PJM Region or the PJM Interchange Energy Market; 
 
v) Determine and declare that an Emergency is expected to exist, exists, or has ceased to 
exist, in all or any part of the PJM Region, or in another directly or indirectly interconnected 
Control Area and serve as a primary point of contact for interested state or federal agencies;  
 
vi) Administer (a) agreements for the transfer of energy in conditions constituting an 
Emergency in the PJM Region or in an interconnected Control Area, and the mutual provision of 
other support in such Emergency conditions with other interconnected Control Areas, and (b) 
purchases of Emergency energy offered by Members from resources that are not Capacity 
Resources in conditions constituting an Emergency in the PJM Region; 
 
vii) Coordinate the curtailment or shedding of load, or other measures appropriate to alleviate 
an Emergency, in order to preserve reliability in accordance with NERC, or Applicable Regional 
Entity principles, guidelines and standards, and to ensure the operation of the PJM Region in 
accordance with Good Utility Practice and this Agreement; 
 
viii) Protect confidential information as specified in this Agreement; and  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.6 Office of the Interconnection 
Effective Date: 11/4/2014 - Docket #: ER14-623-001 - Page 2 
ix) Send a representative to meetings of the Members Committee or other Committees, 
subcommittees, or working groups specified in this Agreement or formed by the Members 
Committee when requested to do so by the chair or other head of such committee or other group; 
 
and 
 
x) Coordinate with adjacent Control Areas on Coordinated Transaction Scheduling (“CTS”) 
and forecast price calculations, in accordance with the procedures of Section 1.13 of this 
Schedule 1 of this Agreement. 
 
1.6.3 Records and Reports. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall prepare and maintain such records and prepare such 
reports, including, but not limited to quarterly budget reports, as are required to document the 
performance of its obligations to the Market Participants hereunder in a form adopted by the 
Office of the Interconnection upon consideration of the advice and recommendations of the 
Members Committee.  The Office of the Interconnection shall also produce special reports 
reasonably requested by the Members Committee and consistent with FERC’s standards of 
conduct; provided, however, the Market Participants shall reimburse the Office of the 
Interconnection for the costs of producing any such report.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall not be required to disclose confidential or commercially 
sensitive information in any such report. 
 
1.6.4 PJM Manuals. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall prepare, maintain and update the PJM Manuals consistent 
with this Agreement.  The PJM Manuals shall be available for inspection by the Market 
Participants, regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the LLC or any Member, and the 
public. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> 
OA  SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.6A PJMSettlement 
Effective Date: 11/4/2014 - Docket #: ER14-623-001 - Page 1 
1.6A PJMSettlement 
 
1.6A.1 Scope of Services 
PJMSettlement shall perform the services pertaining to the PJM Interchange Energy 
Market specified in this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the following: 
 (i) PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to transactions (including 
ancillary services transactions and Coordinated External Transactions) in the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market administered by the Office of the Interconnection;  
 (ii) PJMSettlement shall render bills to the Market Participants, receiving 
payments from and disbursing payments to the Market Participants; and  
 (iii) For purposes of clarity, PJMSettlement shall not be a Counterparty to (i) 
any bilateral transactions between Market Participants, or (ii) with respect to self-
supplied or self-scheduled transactions reported to the Office of the Interconnection.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 1 
1.7 General. 
 
1.7.1 Market Sellers. 
 
Only Market Sellers shall be eligible to submit offers to the Office of the Interconnection for the 
sale of electric energy or related services in the PJM Interchange Energy Market.  Market Sellers 
shall comply with the prices, terms, and operating characteristics of all Offer Data submitted to 
and accepted by the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
1.7.2 Market Buyers. 
 
Only Market Buyers, Energy Storage Resources, and Market Participants purchasing Direct 
Charging Energy to charge Open-Loop Hybrid Resources shall comply with all requirements for 
making purchases from the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
1.7.2A Economic Load Response Participants. 
 
Only Economic Load Response Participants shall be eligible to participate in the Real-time 
Energy Market and the Day-ahead Energy Market by submitting offers to the Office of the 
Interconnection to reduce demand. 
 
1.7.2B Energy Storage Resources and Open-Loop Hybrid Resources. 
 
Energy purchased from the PJM Interchange Energy Market by a Market Participant of an Open-
Loop Hybrid Resource for charging such resource, or that an Energy Storage Resource purchases 
from the PJM Interchange Energy Market, must be Direct Charging Energy.  Energy Storage 
Resources and Open-Loop Hybrid Resources shall comply with all requirements for making 
purchases from the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
1.7.3 Agents. 
 
A Market Participant may participate in the PJM Interchange Energy Market through an agent, 
provided that the Market Participant informs the Office of the Interconnection in advance in 
writing of the appointment of such agent.  A Market Participant participating in the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market through an agent shall be bound by all of the acts or representations 
of such agent with respect to transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market, and shall 
ensure that any such agent complies with the requirements of this Agreement. 
 
1.7.4 General Obligations of the Market Participants. 
 
(a) In performing its obligations to the Office of the Interconnection hereunder, each Market 
Participant shall at all times (i) follow Good Utility Practice, (ii) comply with all applicable laws 
and regulations, (iii) comply with the applicable principles, guidelines, standards and 
requirements of FERC, NERC and each Applicable Regional Entity, (iv) comply with the 
procedures established for operation of the PJM Interchange Energy Market and PJM Region 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 1 - PJM INTERCHANGE ENERGY MARKET --> OA  
SCHEDULE 1 SECTION 1 - MARKET OPERATIONS --> OA Schedule 1 Sec 1.7 General. 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 2 
and (v) cooperate with the Office of the Interconnection as necessary for the operation of the 
PJM Region in a safe, reliable manner consistent with Good Utility Practice. 
 
(b) Market Participants shall undertake all operations in or affecting the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market and the PJM Region including but not limited to compliance with all Emergency 
procedures, in accordance with the power and authority of the Office of the Interconnection with 
respect to the operation of the PJM Interchange Energy Market and the PJM Region as 