Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 10. --> OA SCHEDULE 10 SECTION 1  DEFINITIONS 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 1 
1. Definitions. 
 
1.1 Affected Member.   
 
A Member of PJM which as a result of its participation in PJM’s markets or its membership in 
PJM provided Confidential Information to PJM, which Confidential Information is requested by, 
or is disclosed to an Authorized Person under this Agreement. 
 
1.2 Authorized Commission.  
 
(i) A State (which shall include the District of Columbia) public utility commission that regulates 
the distribution or supply of electricity to retail customers and is legally charged with monitoring 
the operation of wholesale or retail markets serving retail suppliers or customers within its State 
or (ii) an association or organization comprised exclusively of State public utility commissions 
described in the immediately preceding clause (i).  
 
1.3 Authorized Person. 
 
A person, including the undersigned, which has executed this Agreement and is authorized in 
writing by an Authorized Commission to receive and discuss Confidential Information. 
Authorized Persons may include attorneys representing an Authorized Commission or 
consultants and/or contractors directly employed or retained by an Authorized Commission, 
provided however that consultants or contractors may not initiate requests for Confidential 
Information from PJM or the Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
1.4 Confidential Information.   
 
Any information that would be considered non-public or confidential under the Operating 
Agreement. 
 
1.5 FERC.    
 
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.  
 
1.6 Information Request.   
 
A written request, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement for disclosure of Confidential 
Information pursuant to Operating Agreement, section 18.17.4. 
 
1.7 Operating Agreement.   
 
The Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., as it may be 
further amended or restated from time to time. 
 
1.8 Market Monitoring Unit.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 10. --> OA SCHEDULE 10 SECTION 1  DEFINITIONS 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 2 
The Market Monitoring Unit established under Tariff, Attachment M. 
 
1.9 PJM Tariff.   
 
The PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, as it may be amended from time to time. 
 
1.10 Third Party Request.   
 
Any request or demand by any entity upon an Authorized Person or an Authorized Commission 
for release or disclosure of Confidential Information.  A Third Party Request shall include, but 
shall not be limited to, any subpoena, discovery request, or other request for Confidential 
Information made by any: (i) federal, state, or local governmental subdivision, department, 
official, agency or court, or (ii) arbitration panel, business, company, entity or individual. 
 

