Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA Schedule 6-B 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 6-B 
Interregional Transmission Coordination Between 
PJM, New York Independent System Operator, Inc. and ISO New England Inc. 
 
 PJM, its Transmission Owners, and any other interested parties shall coordinate system 
planning activities with neighboring planning regions, (i.e., New York Independent System 
Operator, Inc. and ISO New England Inc.) (“ISO/RTO Regions”) pursuant to the Northeastern 
Planning Protocol (“Protocol”) identified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.5(b).   
 
The Interregional Planning Protocol includes a description of the committee structure, 
processes, and procedures through which system planning activities are openly and transparently 
coordinated by the ISO/RTO Regions.  The objective of the interregional planning process is to 
contribute to the on-going reliability and the enhanced operational and economic performance of 
the ISO/RTO Regions through:  (i) exchange of relevant data and information; (ii) coordination 
of procedures to evaluate certain interconnection and transmission service requests; (iii) periodic 
comprehensive interregional assessments; (iv) identification and evaluation of potential 
Interregional Transmission Projects that can address regional needs in a manner that may be 
more efficient or cost-effective than separate regional solutions, in accordance with the 
requirements of Order No. 1000. 
 
Section 9 of the Protocol indicates that the cost allocation for identified interregional 
transmission projects between PJM and NYISO shall be conducted in accordance with the Joint 
Operating Agreement Among and Between New York Independent System Operator, Inc. and 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. referenced in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.5(b).  
 
The planning activities of the ISO/RTO Regions shall be conducted consistent with the 
planning criteria of each ISO/RTO Region.  The ISO/RTO Regions shall periodically produce a 
Northeastern Coordinated System Plan that integrates the system plans of all of the ISO/RTO 
Regions. 
 

