Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 10. --> OA SCHEDULE 10 SECTION 2 Protection of 
Confidentiality --> OA Schedule 10 Sec 2.1 Duty to Not Disclose 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
2.1 Duty to Not Disclose.   
 
The Authorized Person represents and warrants that he or she: (i) is presently an Authorized 
Person as defined herein; (ii) is duly authorized to enter into and perform this Agreement;  (iii) 
has adequate procedures to protect against the release of Confidential Information, and (iv) is 
familiar with, and will comply with, all such applicable Authorized Commission procedures.  
The Authorized Person hereby covenants and agrees on behalf of himself or herself to deny any 
Third Party Request and defend against any legal process which seeks the release of Confidential 
Information in contravention of the terms of this Agreement.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 10. --> OA SCHEDULE 10 SECTION 2 Protection of 
Confidentiality --> OA Schedule 10 Sec 2.2 Discussion of Confidential Informatio 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
2.2 Discussion of Confidential Information with Other Authorized Persons.   
 
The Authorized Person may discuss Confidential Information with employees of the Authorized 
Commission who have been designated Authorized Persons pursuant to the Operating 
Agreement and with such other third-party.  Authorized Persons who have executed non-
disclosure agreements with PJM containing the same terms and conditions as this Agreement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 10. --> OA SCHEDULE 10 SECTION 2 Protection of 
Confidentiality --> OA Schedule 10 Sec 2.3 Defense Against Third Party Requests. 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
2.3 Defense Against Third Party Requests.   
 
The Authorized Person shall defend against any disclosure of Confidential Information pursuant 
to any Third Party Request through all available legal process, including, but not limited to, 
seeking to obtain any necessary protective orders. The Authorized Person shall provide PJM, and 
PJM shall provide each Affected Member, with prompt notice of any such Third Party Request 
or legal proceedings, and shall consult with PJM and/or any Affected Member in its efforts to 
deny the request or defend against such legal process. In the event a protective order or other 
remedy is denied, the Authorized Person agrees to furnish only that portion of the Confidential 
Information which their legal counsel advises PJM (and of which PJM shall, in turn, advise any 
Affected Members) in writing is legally required to be furnished, and to exercise their best 
efforts to obtain assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded to such Confidential 
Information.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 10. --> OA SCHEDULE 10 SECTION 2 Protection of 
Confidentiality --> OA Schedule 10 Sec 2.4 Care and Use of Confidential Inform 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 1 
2.4 Care and Use of Confidential Information.  
 
2.4.1 Control of Confidential Information.   
 
The Authorized Person(s) shall be the custodian(s) of any and all Confidential Information 
received pursuant to the terms of this Agreement from PJM or the Market Monitoring Unit.   
 
2.4.2 Access to Confidential Information.   
 
The Authorized Person shall ensure that Confidential Information received by that Authorized 
Person is disseminated only to those persons publicly identified as Authorized Persons on 
Exhibit “A” to the certification provided by the State Commission to PJM pursuant to the 
procedures contained in Operating Agreement, section 18.17.4.  
 
2.4.3 Schedule of Authorized Persons.   
 
(i) The Authorized Person shall promptly notify PJM and the Market Monitoring Unit of any 
change that would affect the Authorized Person’s status as an Authorized Person, and in such 
event shall request, in writing, deletion from the schedule referred to in section (ii), below. 
 
(ii) PJM shall maintain a schedule of all Authorized Persons and the Authorized 
Commissions they represent, which shall be made publicly available on the PJM website and/or 
by written request. Such schedule shall be compiled by PJM, based on information provided by 
any Authorized Person and/or Authorized Commission. PJM shall update the schedule promptly 
upon receipt of information from an Authorized Person or Authorized Commission, but shall 
have no obligation to verify or corroborate any such information, and shall not be liable or 
otherwise responsible for any inaccuracies in the schedule due to incomplete or erroneous 
information conveyed to and relied upon by PJM in the compilation and/or maintenance of the 
schedule.  
 
2.4.4 Use of Confidential Information.   
 
The Authorized Person shall use the Confidential Information solely for the purpose of assisting 
the Authorized Commission in discharging its legal responsibility to monitor the wholesale and 
retail electricity markets, operations, transmission planning and siting and generation planning 
and siting materially affecting retail customers within the State, and for no other purpose. 
 
2.4.5 Return of Confidential Information.   
 
Upon completion of the inquiry or investigation referred to in the Information Request, or for 
any reason the Authorized Person is, or will no longer be an Authorized Person, the Authorized 
Person shall (a) return the Confidential Information and all copies thereof to PJM and/or the 
Market Monitoring Unit, or (b) provide a certification that the Authorized Person has destroyed 
all paper copies and deleted all electronic copies of the Confidential Information. PJM and/or the 
Market Monitoring Unit, as applicable, may waive this condition in writing if such Confidential 
Information has become publicly available or non-confidential in the course of business or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 10. --> OA SCHEDULE 10 SECTION 2 Protection of 
Confidentiality --> OA Schedule 10 Sec 2.4 Care and Use of Confidential Inform 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 2 
pursuant to the PJM Tariff, PJM rule or order of the FERC. 
 
2.4.6 Notice of Disclosures.   
 
The Authorized Person, directly or through the Authorized Commission, shall promptly notify 
PJM and/or the  Market Monitoring Unit, and PJM and/or the  Market Monitoring Unit shall 
promptly notify any Affected Member, of any inadvertent or intentional release or possible 
release of the Confidential Information provided pursuant to this Agreement. The Authorized 
Person shall take all steps to minimize any further release of Confidential Information, and shall 
take reasonable steps to attempt to retrieve any Confidential Information that may have been 
released.  
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 10. --> OA SCHEDULE 10 SECTION 2 Protection of 
Confidentiality --> OA Schedule 10 Sec 2.5 Ownership and Privilege 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 1 
2.5 Ownership and Privilege.   
 
Nothing in this Agreement, or incident to the provision of Confidential Information to the 
Authorized Person pursuant to any Information Request, is intended, nor shall it be deemed, to 
be a waiver or abandonment of any legal privilege that may be asserted against subsequent 
disclosure or discovery in any formal proceeding or investigation. Moreover, no transfer or 
creation of ownership rights in any intellectual property comprising Confidential Information is 
intended or shall be inferred by the disclosure of Confidential Information by PJM and/or the 
Market Monitoring Unit, and any and all intellectual property comprising Confidential 
Information disclosed and any derivations thereof shall continue to be the exclusive intellectual 
property of PJM, the Market Monitoring Unit (to the extent that it owns any intellectual 
property), and/or the Affected Member. 
 

