Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 3 NEGOTIATION AND 
MEDIATION --> OA Schedule 5 Sec 3.1 When Required. 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
3.1 When Required. 
 
The parties to a dispute shall undertake good-faith negotiations to resolve any dispute as to a 
matter governed by one of the Related PJM Agreements.  Each party to a dispute shall designate 
an executive with authority to resolve the matter in dispute to participate in such negotiations.  
Any dispute as to a matter governed by one of the Related PJM Agreements that has not been 
resolved through good-faith negotiation shall be subject to non-binding mediation prior to the 
initiation of arbitral, regulatory, judicial, or other dispute resolution proceedings as may be 
appropriate as provided by these PJM Dispute Resolution Procedures.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 3 NEGOTIATION AND 
MEDIATION --> OA Schedule 5 Sec 3.2 Procedures 
Effective Date: 7/18/2012 - Docket #: ER12-1784-000 - Page 1 
3.2 Procedures. 
 
3.2.1 Initiation. 
 
If a dispute that is subject to the mediation procedures specified herein has not been resolved 
through good-faith negotiation, a party to the dispute shall notify the Alternate Dispute 
Resolution Coordinator in writing of the existence and nature of the dispute prior to commencing 
any other form of proceeding for resolution of the dispute.  The Alternate Dispute Resolution 
Coordinator shall have ten calendar days from the date it first receives notification of the 
existence of a dispute from any of the parties to the dispute in which to distribute to the parties a 
list of mediators. 
 
3.2.2 Selection of Mediator. 
 
The Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator shall distribute to the parties by facsimile or other 
electronic means a list containing the names of seven mediators with mediation experience, or 
with technical or business experience in the electric power industry, or both, as it shall deem 
appropriate to the dispute.  The Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator may draw from the 
lists of mediators maintained by the established dispute resolution committee of an Applicable 
Regional Entity, as the Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator shall deem appropriate.  In the 
event the Office of the Interconnection is one of the parties to the dispute, the Alternate Dispute 
Resolution Coordinator shall distribute the names of all qualified mediators on the Alternate 
Dispute Resolution Coordinator’s list. The persons on the proposed list of mediators shall have 
no official, financial, or personal conflict of interest with respect to the issues in controversy, 
unless the interest is fully disclosed in writing to all participants in the mediation process and all 
such participants waive in writing any objection to the interest. The parties shall then alternate in 
striking names from the list with the last name on the list becoming the mediator.  The 
determination of which party shall have the first strike off the list shall be determined by lot.  
The parties shall have ten calendar days to complete the mediator selection process, unless the 
time is extended by mutual agreement. 
 
3.2.3 Advisory Mediator. 
 
If the Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator deems it appropriate, it shall distribute two lists, 
one containing the names of seven mediators with mediation experience (or a list containing the 
names of all current mediators in the event of a dispute involving the Office of the 
Interconnection), and one containing the names of seven mediators with technical or business 
experience in the electric power industry.  In connection with circulating the foregoing lists, the 
Alternate Dispute Resolution Coordinator shall specify one of the lists as containing the 
proposed mediators, and the other as a list of proposed advisors to assist the mediator in 
resolving the dispute.  The parties shall then utilize the alternative strike procedure set forth 
above until one name remains on each list, with the last named persons serving as the mediator 
and advisor. 
 
3.2.4 Mediation Process. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 3 NEGOTIATION AND 
MEDIATION --> OA Schedule 5 Sec 3.2 Procedures 
Effective Date: 7/18/2012 - Docket #: ER12-1784-000 - Page 2 
The disputing parties shall attempt in good faith to resolve their dispute in accordance with 
procedures and a timetable established by the mediator.  In furtherance of the mediation efforts, 
the mediator may: 
 
 (a) Require the parties to meet for face-to-face discussions, with or without the 
mediator; 
 
 (b) Act as an intermediary between the disputing parties; 
 
 (c) Require the disputing parties to submit written statements of issues and positions;  
 
 (d) If requested by the disputing parties at any time in the mediation process, provide 
a written recommendation on resolution of the dispute including, if requested, the assessment by 
the mediator of the merits of the principal positions being advanced by each of the disputing 
parties; and 
 
 (e) Adopt, when appropriate, the Center for Public Resources Model ADR 
Procedures for the Meditation of Business Disputes (as revised from time to time) to the extent 
such Procedures are not inconsistent with any rule, standard, or procedure adopted by the Office 
of the Interconnection or with any provision of this Agreement. 
 
3.2.5 Mediator’s Assessment. 
 
 (a) If a resolution of the dispute is not reached by the thirtieth day after the 
appointment of the mediator or such later date as may be agreed to by the parties, if not 
previously requested to do so the mediator shall promptly provide the disputing parties with a 
written, confidential, non-binding recommendation on resolution of the dispute, including the 
assessment by the mediator of the merits of the principal positions being advanced by each of the 
disputing parties.  The recommendation may incorporate or append, if and as the mediator may 
deem appropriate, any recommendations or any assessment of the positions of the parties by the 
advisor, if any.  Upon request, the mediator shall provide any additional recommendations or 
assessments the mediator shall deem appropriate. 
 
 (b) At a time and place specified by the mediator after delivery of the foregoing 
recommendation, the disputing parties shall meet in a good faith attempt to resolve the dispute in 
light of the recommendation of the mediator.  Each disputing party shall be represented at the 
meeting by a person with authority to settle the dispute, along with such other persons as each 
disputing party shall deem appropriate.  If the disputing parties are unable to resolve the dispute 
at or in connection with this meeting, then: (i) any disputing party may commence such arbitral, 
judicial, regulatory or other proceedings as may be appropriate as provided in the PJM Dispute 
Resolution Procedures; and (ii) the recommendation of the mediator, and any statements made 
by any party in the mediation process, shall have no further force or effect, and shall not be 
admissible for any purpose, in any subsequent arbitral, administrative, judicial, or other 
proceeding.  
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPERATING AGREEMENT --> OA SCHEDULE 5 --> OA SCHEDULE 5 SECTION 3 NEGOTIATION AND 
MEDIATION --> OA Schedule 5 Sec 3.3 Costs 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
3.3 Costs. 
 
 Except as specified in Section 4.13, the costs of the time, expenses, and other charges of 
the mediator and any advisor, and of the mediation process, shall be borne by the parties to the 
dispute, with each side in a mediated matter bearing one-half of such costs, and each party 
bearing its own costs and attorney’s fees incurred in connection with the mediation. 
 

