ATTACHMENT H-7C 
 
PECO ENERGY COMPANY 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
 
Section I. Applicability 
 
The following procedures (the “Protocols”) shall apply to PECO Energy Company’s (“PECO”) 
calculations under its formula rate set forth in PJM OATT Attachment H-7A and H-7B 
(“Monthly Deferred Tax Adjustment Charge” or “MDTAC”) (together, the “Formula Rate”).  The 
Formula Rate and the Protocols together comprise the filed rate.  
 
Section II. Annual Updates and Projected Net Revenue Requirements 
 
A. On or before May 31 of each year, PECO shall determine its Net Revenue Requirements 
for Attachments H-7A and H-7B for the immediately preceding year (the “Annual 
Update”) in accordance with PECO’s Formula Rate. PECO shall use the Annual Update 
to derive the True-Up Adjustments provided for in Section VI of these Protocols. At the 
same time, PECO shall determine its projected net revenue requirements for Attachment 
H-7A and H-7B for the twelve-month period beginning June 1 of the then-current year 
(such twelve-month period referred to herein as the “Rate Year”). 
 
B. On or before May 31 of each year, PECO shall provide its Annual Update and True-Up 
Adjustments to PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”), cause such information to be 
posted on the PJM website and OASIS, and file such information with the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) as an informational filing.  Within five (5) days of 
such posting, PECO shall cause notice of such posting to be provided via an email 
exploder list.  Interested Parties can subscribe to the exploder list on the PJM website. 
For purposes of these Protocols, the term Interested Party includes, but is not limited to, 
customers under the PJM Tariff, state utility regulatory commissions, the Organization of 
PJM States, Inc., consumer advocacy agencies, and state attorneys general. 
 
C. On or before May 31 of each year, PECO shall provide its projected net revenue 
requirements to PJM, cause such information to be posted on the PJM website and 
OASIS, and file such information with the FERC as an informational filing. Within five 
(5) days of posting of the projected net revenue requirements, PECO shall cause notice of 
such posting to be provided to an email exploder list.  In the event PECO’s Formula Rate 
is first included in the PJM Tariff such that the first projected net revenue requirements 
cannot be provided to PJM by June 1, PECO will nevertheless prepare a projection of its 
net revenue requirements for the first Rate Year using the most recent information 
available, and the projection will be posted on the PJM website and OASIS at least sixty 
(60) days prior to the rates becoming effective.  If the Formula Rate becomes effective on 
any date other than January 1, then notwithstanding anything in the Formula Rate or these 
Protocols to the contrary, the True-up Adjustments for the first calendar year in which the 
Formula Rate is in effect will be the difference between (1) the net revenue requirements 
in the Annual Update for such calendar year divided by 365 and then multiplied by the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 2 
number of days the rate was in effect for the calendar year and (2) the actual revenues 
received for service provided during the period that the Formula Rate was in effect during 
such year.1 PECO will conduct a meeting with Interested Parties on the projected net 
revenue requirements for the first Rate Year between twenty (20) to forty (40) days after 
posting.  Notice of the customer meeting, including the time, date, location, and remote 
access information, shall be posted on the PJM website and OASIS and distributed to the 
e-mail exploder list no less than seven (7) days prior to such meeting. 
 
D. If the deadline for any event under these Protocols falls on a weekend or a holiday 
recognized by FERC, the deadline for such event shall be extended to the next business 
day. 
 
E. The date on which posting of the Annual Update occurs shall be that year’s “Publication 
Date.” Any delay in the Publication Date or in the posting of the projected net revenue 
requirements will result in an equivalent extension of time for the submission of 
information requests discussed in Section III of these Protocols. 
 
F. The Annual Update shall: 
 
1.  Include workable data-populated Formula Rate templates (Attachments H-7A 
and H-7B) and underlying workpapers in native format with all formulas and 
links intact for both (1) the True-Up Year actual net revenue requirements 
referenced in Section VI.1., and (2) the Rate Year projected net revenue 
requirements referenced in Sections II.A and VI.3; 
 
2.  Be based on PECO’s FERC Form No. 1 data for the prior calendar year. 
If the referenced form is superseded, the successor form(s) shall be 
utilized and supplemented as necessary to provide equivalent information 
as that provided in the superseded form. If the referenced form(s) is (are) 
discontinued, equivalent information as that provided in the discontinued 
form(s) shall be utilized. To the extent non-FERC Form No. 1 data is 
used, such data must be (1) clearly identified as such, and (2) supported as 
to its accuracy, due to, for example, such data being derived from data 
contained in PECO’s books and records; 
 
3.  Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as 
supporting documentation and workpapers in native format for data that are 
used in the Annual Update that are not otherwise available in the FERC Form 
No. 1.  Supporting documentation and workpapers for Attachment H-7A, 
Attachment 3 Project True-Up will include for each new Schedule 12 
tariffed project listed individually on letter-denominated Line 3 entries  
    
1 For example, if the Formula Rate is made effective July 1, 2017, the True-Up Adjustment for 2017(included in the 
rates charged June 1, 2018 through May 31, 2019) shall be equal to the difference between (1) the net revenue 
requirement calculated under the Formula Rate for 2017, divided by 365, and multiplied by 184 and (2) the actual 
revenues received for service provided during the period July 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017. 
documentation of (1) the month in which project construction began and the date upon 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 3 
which the project (or first operationally in service portion of the project) was 
placed in service, (2) the current budgeted project costs as listed on the PJM 
website, and (3) the costs cleared to plant in service as of December 31 of the 
True-Up Year.  For the True-Up Year plus the preceding December, 
supporting documentation in electronic spreadsheet format will also include 
end-of-month gross plant balances for (1) each Schedule 12 project listed 
individually on letter-denominated Line 3 entries and (2) the sum of the non-
Schedule 12 projects included in the Attachment H-7A, Attachment 3, Line 3 
Zonal entry. In addition, PECO will provide a workpaper that lists the original 
in-service cost for each Schedule 12 tariffed project that is 100% allocated to 
PECO; 
4.  Provide supporting documentation for Attachment H-7B that will include 
workpapers showing that the income tax/(credit) for excess deferred income 
taxes is only related to the current year and reconciling input balances to the 
appropriate FERC Form No. 1 data;  
 
5.  Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the 
calculation of the Annual Update results from the FERC Form No. 1; 
 
6.  Identify any changes in the formula references (page and line numbers) to the 
FERC Form No. 1; 
 
7.  Identify and, to the extent not explained in a worksheet included in the 
ATRR, explain, all material adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data 
in determining formula inputs, including relevant footnotes to the FERC 
Form No. 1 and any adjustments not shown in the FERC Form No. 1; 
 
8.  Provide for the applicable Rate Year the following information related to 
affiliate cost allocation: (a) a detailed description of the methodologies used to 
allocate and directly assign costs between PECO and its affiliates by service 
category or function, including any changes to such cost allocation 
methodologies from the prior year and the reasons and justifications for those 
changes; and (b) the magnitude of such costs that have been allocated or 
directly assigned between PECO and each affiliate by service category or 
function; 
 
9.  Identify any change in accounting from that in effect for the calendar year 
upon which the preceding Annual Update was based that affects inputs to the 
Formula Rate or the resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate 
(“Accounting Change”),2 including: 
 
a. the initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy; 
    
2 Such notice may incorporate by reference applicable disclosure statements filed with the United States Securities 
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) or contained in the FERC Form No. 1. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 4 
b. the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific 
accounting direction; 
c. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that impact the 
True-Up Adjustments calculation; 
d. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that 
change prior estimates; and 
e. changes to income tax elections; 
10.  Identify items included in the Annual Update at an amount other than on a 
historical cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
11.  Identify any corporate reorganization involving asset transfers during the 
previous year and explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) 
on inputs to the Annual Update; 
12.  Identify any merger transaction, purchase/sale, or lease of jurisdictional assets 
of another entity during the previous year valued in excess of $10,000,000, 
and explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to the 
Annual Update;  
13.  Provide, for each item identified pursuant to items II.F.9 through II.F.12 of 
these Protocols, a narrative explanation of the individual impact of such 
changes on the True-Up Adjustments; 
14.  Include a workpaper with a breakdown of all Service Company costs allocated 
to and incurred by PECO and recognized in its Annual FERC Form No. 1, 
including costs recorded in Account 923. This breakdown will show the 
Service Company costs allocated to and incurred at PECO by FERC Account 
and expense item, and will be reconciled to both Exelon Business Services 
Company (BSC)’s Annual Form 60, Schedule XVII – Analysis of Billing – 
Associate Companies (Account 457), Line 31 (or the equivalent line number 
should that line number change) in addition to the inputs included in the annual 
transmission formula rate template; 
15.  Include a workpaper that lists the original in-service cost for each new 
Schedule 12 tariffed project that is 100% allocated to PECO; 
16.  Include a workpaper that identifies and describes the amount of book 
depreciation expense associated with AFUDC Equity and its impact on income 
tax expense. The work paper will be taken directly from PECO’s tax 
accounting records, namely the widely-used PowerTax tax depreciation and 
deferred tax software;   
17.  Provide a list of issues, if any, that are the subject of an ongoing dispute under 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 5 
the Informal or Formal Challenge procedures provided in these Protocols; and 
18.  Include a workpaper that exhibits the 13-month average balances with regard 
to the references to page 227 of the FERC Form No. 1 in column g (Materials 
and Supplies) to Attachment 4 of the Formula Rate Template, for (i) line 8, (ii)   
the transmission amount used from line 5 and (iii) line 16.  In addition, this 
workpaper shall provide the calculation as described in Note L of Attachment 
4 showing the 50% discount and cap for line 5 and the labor ratio multiplied 
by line 16 for each month.   
G. The projected net revenue requirements shall: 
 
1.  Use the same inputs as the Annual Update except that it will include estimated 
13 monthly balances for transmission plant and transmission accumulated 
depreciation for the current year; 
 
2.  Include workable data-populated Formula Rate templates (Attachments H-7A 
and H-7B) and underlying workpapers in native format with all formulas and 
links intact; 
 
3.  Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, with projected 
transmission plant balances, including supporting documentation and 
workpapers in native format for all such calculations, inputs and projections; 
 
4.  Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the 
calculation of the projected net revenue requirements;  
 
5.  Identify any Accounting Change, including: 
 
a. the initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy; 
 
b.  the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific 
accounting direction; 
 
c. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that impact the 
projected net revenue requirements calculation; 
 
d. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that change 
prior estimates; 
 
e. changes to income tax elections; 
 
6.  Identify items included in the projected net revenue requirements at an 
amount other than on a historical cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
 
7.  Identify any corporate reorganization involving asset transfers during the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 6 
previous year and explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) 
on inputs to the projected net revenue requirements; 
 
8.  Identify any merger transaction, purchase/sale, or lease of jurisdictional assets 
of another entity during the previous year valued in excess of $10,000,000, and 
explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to the 
projected net revenue requirements; 
 
9. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to items II.G.5 through II.G.8 of 
these Protocols, a narrative explanation of the individual impact of such 
changes on the projected net revenue requirements. 
 
H. PECO shall hold an open meeting among Interested Parties (“Annual Meeting”) no 
earlier than ten (10) business days, and no later than forty-five (45) days after the 
Publication Date. PECO will make the Annual Meeting remotely accessible; provided 
that the schedule for holding such meeting for the first Rate Year shall be as stated in 
Section II.C.  No less than seven (7) days prior to such Annual Meeting, PECO shall 
provide notice on PJM’s internet website and OASIS of the time, date, location, and 
remote access information for the Annual Meeting and PJM shall provide notice of such 
meeting to an email exploder list. The Annual Meeting shall (i) permit PECO to explain 
and clarify its Annual Update and True-Up Adjustments and (ii) provide Interested 
Parties an opportunity to seek information and clarifications from PECO about the 
Annual Update and True-Up Adjustments.  The estimated transmission plant balances 
included in the projected net revenue requirements, including the informational filing 
PECO submits under Section II.C of these Protocols will be included in the Annual 
Meeting. 
 
I. PECO will participate in joint informational meetings once it begins development of a 
transmission project for which costs are to be regionally or inter-regionally allocated, or 
when any such project proposes to allocate costs to PECO transmission customers.  The 
purpose of PECO’s participation is to enable all Interested Parties to understand how 
PECO and other transmission owners are implementing their formula rates for cost 
recovery of such projects.  PECO will make the joint informational meeting remotely 
accessible. Notice of joint informational meetings, including the time, date, location, and 
remote access information, shall be posted on the PJM website and OASIS and 
distributed to the email exploder list no less than seven (7) days prior to such meetings.  
 
Section III. Information Exchange Procedures 
 
Each Annual Update and projected net revenue requirements shall be subject to the following 
information exchange procedures (“Information Exchange Procedures”): 
 
A. Interested Parties shall have up to one-hundred eighty (180) days after each annual 
Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of PECO or by 
FERC order) to serve reasonable information and document requests on PECO 
(“Information Exchange Period”). Such information and document requests shall be 
limited to what is necessary to determine: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 7 
 
1. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
 
2. whether the Annual Update or projected net revenue requirements fails to 
include data properly recorded in accordance with these Protocols; 
3. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these 
Protocols; 
 
4. the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
calculations shown in the Annual Update and projected net revenue 
requirements; 
 
5. the reasonableness and prudence of actual costs and expenditures, including, but 
not limited to, information regarding PECO’s procurement methods and cost 
control methodologies; 
 
6. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or 
FERC Form No. 1; or 
 
7. any other information that may reasonably have substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
 
The information and document requests shall not be directed to ascertaining whether the 
Formula Rate is just and reasonable.   
 
B. PECO shall make a good faith effort to respond to information and document requests 
within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such requests.  PECO shall respond to all 
information and document requests by no later than two-hundred ten (210) days following 
the Publication Date, unless the Information Exchange Period is extended  by FERC.  If 
any of PECO’s response(s) include material PECO believes is privileged or confidential, 
in whole or in part, such privileged or confidential material will be made available to the 
requesting party pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to be executed by PECO and the 
requesting party.       
C. To the extent PECO and any Interested Party(ies) are unable to resolve disputes related to 
information requests submitted in accordance with these Information Exchange 
Procedures, PECO or any Interested Party may petition the FERC to appoint an 
Administrative Law Judge as a discovery master.  The discovery master shall have the 
power to issue binding orders to resolve discovery disputes and compel the production of 
discovery, as appropriate, in accordance with the Information Exchange Procedures and 
consistent with FERC’s discovery rules. 
 
D. PECO shall not claim that responses to information and document requests provided 
pursuant to these Protocols are subject to any settlement privilege in any subsequent 
FERC proceeding addressing PECO’s Annual Update or projected net revenue 
requirements. Interested Parties may use any information PECO provides under these 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 8 
Protocols in filing Formal Challenges, or any pleadings in section 205 or 206 
proceedings. 
 
 
 
 
 
Section IV. Challenge Procedures 
 
A. Interested Parties shall have until two-hundred forty (240) days following the 
Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of PECO or by 
FERC order) to review the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations and calculations 
and to notify PECO in writing, which may be made electronically, of any specific 
Informal Challenges to the Annual Update or projected net revenue requirements.  In 
making such a challenge, an Interested Party may use the information that PECO 
provides pursuant to the Information Exchange Procedures.  The period of time from the 
Publication Date until two-hundred forty (240) days following the Publication Date shall 
be referred to as the Review Period. Failure to pursue an issue through an Informal 
Challenge or to lodge a Formal Challenge regarding any issue as to a given Annual 
Update or projected net revenue requirement shall bar pursuit of such issue with respect 
to that Annual Update or projected net revenue requirement, but shall not bar pursuit of 
such issue or the lodging of a Formal Challenge as to such issue as it relates to a 
subsequent Annual Update or projected net revenue requirement. This Section IV.A in 
no way shall affect a party’s rights under section 206 of the FPA as set forth in Section 
IV.I of these Protocols. 
 
B. A party submitting an Informal Challenge to PECO must specify the inputs, supporting 
explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information to which it objects, and 
provide an appropriate explanation and documents to support its challenge. PECO shall 
make a good faith effort to respond to any Informal Challenge within twenty (20) 
business days of notification of such challenge. PECO, and where applicable, PJM, shall 
appoint a senior representative to work with the party that submitted the Informal 
Challenge (or its representative) toward a resolution of the challenge.  If PECO 
disagrees with such challenge, PECO will provide the Interested Party(ies) with an 
explanation supporting the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations, calculations, or 
other information. No Informal Challenge may be submitted following the end of the 
Review Period unless the Review Period is extended by PECO or FERC, and PECO 
must respond to all Informal Challenges within twenty (20) business days, unless the 
period for such response is extended by FERC. 
 
C. Informal Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in 
this Section IV. Formal Challenges shall be filed pursuant to these Protocols and shall 
satisfy all of the following requirements. 
 
1. A Formal Challenge shall: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 9 
a. Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the 
filed Formula Rate or Protocols; 
 
b. Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed Formula Rate or 
Protocols; 
 
c. Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues 
presented by the action or inaction as such relate to or affect the party 
filing the Formal Challenge, including: 
 
i. The extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
 
ii. Whether the Annual Update or projected net revenue 
requirements fail to include data properly recorded in 
accordance with these Protocols; 
 
iii. The proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in  
these Protocols; 
 
iv. The accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate 
of the charges shown in the Annual Update or projected net 
revenue requirements; 
 
v. The prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
 
vi. The effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of 
Accounts or FERC Form No. 1; or 
 
vii. Any other information that may reasonably have a substantive 
effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula 
Rate. 
 
d. Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if 
any) created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of 
the action or inaction; 
 
e. State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing 
Commission proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which 
the filing party is a party, and if so, provide an explanation why 
timely resolution cannot be achieved in that forum; 
 
f. State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for 
stay or extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
 
g. Include the documents necessary to substantiate the facts in the 
Formal Challenge in possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 10 
filing party, including, but not limited to, contracts and affidavits; 
and 
 
h. State whether the filing party utilized the Informal Challenge 
procedures described in these Protocols to dispute the action or inaction 
raised by the Formal Challenge, and, if not, describe why not. 
 
2. Service. Any person filing a Formal Challenge must serve a copy of the 
Formal Challenge on PECO. Service to PECO must be simultaneous with 
filing at the Commission.  Simultaneous service can be accomplished by 
electronic mail in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 385.2010(f)(3), facsimile, 
express delivery, or messenger.  The party filing the Formal Challenge shall 
serve the individual listed as the contact person on the PECO’s Informational 
Filing required under Section II of these Protocols. 
 
D. Informal and Formal Challenges shall be limited to all issues that may be necessary 
to determine: (1) the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; (2) whether the 
Annual Update or projected net revenue requirements fail to include data properly 
recorded in accordance with these Protocols; (3) the proper application of the 
Formula Rate and procedures in these Protocols; (4) the accuracy of data and 
consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations shown in the Annual Update 
and projected net revenue requirements; (5) the prudence of actual costs and 
expenditures; (6) the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of 
Accounts or FERC Form No. 1; or (7) any other information that may reasonably 
have substantive effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula 
Rate. 
 
E. PECO will cause to be posted on the PJM website and OASIS all Informal Challenges 
from Interested Party(ies); except, however, if Informal Challenges include material 
PECO believes should be treated as privileged or confidential in whole or in part, such 
Informal Challenges will be publicly posted with such privileged or confidential 
information redacted.  PECO will make such privileged or confidential information 
available to requesting Interested Parties pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to be 
executed by PECO and the requesting Interested Party(ies).   
 
F. Any changes or adjustments to the Annual Update or True-up Adjustments or projected 
net revenue requirements resulting from the Information Exchange and Informal 
Challenge processes that are agreed to by PECO will be reported in the Informational 
Filing required pursuant to Section II of these Protocols. Any such changes or 
adjustments agreed to by PECO will be reflected in the following year’s Annual 
Update and projected net revenue requirements, as discussed in Section V of these 
Protocols. 
 
G. An Interested Party shall have until seventy-five (75) days following the end of the 
Review Period (unless such date is extended with the written consent of PECO to 
continue efforts to resolve the Informal Challenge) to make a Formal Challenge with 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 11 
FERC, which shall be served on PECO on the date of such filing as specified in Section 
IV.C(2) above.  A Formal Challenge shall be filed in the same docket as PECO’s 
Informational Filing discussed in Section II of these Protocols. PECO shall respond to 
the Formal Challenge by the deadline established by FERC. A party may not pursue a 
Formal Challenge if that party did not submit an Informal Challenge on any issue during 
the applicable Review Period. 
 
H. In any proceeding initiated by FERC concerning the Annual Update or projected net 
revenue requirements or in response to a Formal Challenge, PECO shall bear the burden, 
consistent with section 205 of the FPA, of proving that it has correctly applied the terms 
of the Formula Rate consistent with these Protocols, and that it followed the applicable 
requirements and procedures in these Protocols. Nothing herein is intended to alter the 
burdens applied by FERC with respect to prudence challenges. 
 
I. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any 
way the right of PECO to file unilaterally, pursuant to FPA section 205 and the 
regulations thereunder, to change the Formula Rate or any of its inputs (including, but 
not limited to, rate of return and transmission incentive rate treatment), or to replace 
the Formula Rate with a stated rate, or the right of any other party to request such 
changes pursuant to section 206 of the FPA and the regulations thereunder. 
 
J. No party shall seek to modify the Formula Rate under the Challenge Procedures set 
forth in these Protocols and the Annual Update and projected net revenue requirements 
shall not be subject to challenge by anyone for the purpose of modifying the Formula 
Rate.  Any modifications to the Formula Rate will require, as applicable, an FPA 
section 205 or section 206 filing. 
 
K. No later than March 31, 2020, and each March 31 thereafter, PECO shall submit a 
limited FPA section 205 filing to revise its depreciation rates for Accounts 352 through 
359 and 390 through 398 and amortization rates for Account 303. The depreciation rates 
shall be consistent with PECO’s recorded depreciation expense and gross plant balances 
for the immediately preceding year.  PECO will propose to the Commission in such 
FPA section 205 filing that the new depreciation and amortization rates be made 
effective such that they will be used when PECO performs its next true-up calculation 
following such filing (e.g. for use by May 31, 2020 for the true-up of 2019 rates in the 
case of the March 31, 2020 section 205 filing).  Any party may oppose PECO’s revised 
depreciation and amortization rates and/or its requested effective date.  When, at least 
once every five years, PECO completes its depreciation study, it will file said study as 
part the limited FPA section 205 filing to which such study relates.   
 
L. PECO may, at its discretion and at a time of its choosing, make a limited filing 
pursuant to section 205 to modify stated values in its Formula Rate for (i) 
amortization and depreciation rates (including the filing contemplated by Section 
IV.K., above), (ii) Post-Retirement Benefits Other than Pensions rates, or (iii) the 
weighting of the ADIT balance in rate base to ensure PECO’s compliance with the 
Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) regulations for normalization under IRS Section 
1.167(l)-1(h)(6).  Unless the Commission determines otherwise upon review of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 12 
filing and responsive pleadings, the sole issue in any such limited section 205 
proceeding shall be whether such proposed change(s) is just and reasonable, and it 
shall not address other aspects of the Formula Rate.   
 
M. Any Interested Party seeking changes to the application of the Formula Rate due to a 
change in the Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1, shall first raise the 
matter with PECO in accordance with this Section IV before pursuing a Formal 
Challenge. 
 
Section V. Changes to True-Up Adjustments or Projected Net Revenue 
Requirements 
 
Except as provided in Section IV.F of these Protocols, any changes to the data inputs, 
including but not limited to revisions to PECO’s FERC Form No. 1, or as the result of any 
FERC proceeding to consider the Annual Update or projected net revenue requirements, shall 
be incorporated into the Formula Rate and the charges produced by the Formula Rate in the 
Annual Update and projected net revenue requirements for the next Rate Year. This 
reconciliation mechanism shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments. Interest on any 
refund or surcharge shall be calculated in accordance with the procedures outlined in Section 
VI of these Protocols. 
 
Section VI. Calculation of True-Up Adjustments 
 
The True-Up Adjustments will be determined in the following manner: 
 
A. Actual transmission revenues received the previous year (“True-Up Year”) shall be 
compared to the actual net revenue requirements (calculated in accordance with PECO’s 
Formula Rate) for the True-Up Year as determined using PECO’s completed FERC 
Form No. 1 report to determine any excess or shortfall. The excess or shortfall due to 
the actual revenue received versus the actual net revenue requirements shall constitute 
the “True-Up Adjustments.” The True-Up Adjustments and related calculations shall be 
posted to PJM’s website and OASIS no later than May 31 following the issuance of the 
FERC Form No. 1 for the previous year, as set forth in Section II of these Protocols. 
 
B. Interest on any over or under recovery of the net revenue requirements shall be 
determined based on the Commission’s regulation at 18 C.F.R § 35.19a as set forth in 
Attachment H-7A, Attachment 6 to the Formula Rate.  An average interest rate shall be 
used to calculate the interest payable for the seventeen (17) months during which the 
over or under recovery in the revenue requirement exists. The interest rate to be applied 
to the over or under recovery amounts will be determined using the average rate for the 
seventeen (17) months preceding June of the current year. The interest amount will be 
included in the projected costs made available by May 31, as described in Section II.C 
above. 
C. The net revenue requirement for transmission services for the following Rate Year shall 
be the sum of the projected net revenue requirements for the following year, plus or 
minus the True-Up Adjustment from the True-Up Year, if any, including interest, as 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-7C - PECO 
Effective Date: 12/5/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1519-003 - Page 13 
explained above, and as described in Attachment H-7A, Attachment 3 of PECO’s 
Formula Rate. 
 
D. PECO may accelerate the refund of any over recovery amounts by one year. The 
interest calculation will be adjusted to reflect the period the over recovery exists. 
 
 
Section VII. Competitive Bid Concessions 
 
For transmission development projects assigned to PECO as a result of the PJM competitive 
project sponsor process, PECO may, in its sole discretion, agree with PJM to apply a 
Competitive Bid Concession that will result in a lower net revenue requirement on a project-
specific basis than that which would otherwise be produced by the PECO Formula Rate. Any 
Competitive Bid Concession will appear as a zero or negative input to the Formula Rate, and 
will be determined on a project-specific basis using a workpaper that will be provided to 
Interested Parties, in native format with all cells and formulae intact, as supporting 
documentation for each PECO Annual Update. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8 - PPL 
Effective Date: 7/30/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2144-000 - Page 1 
