ATTACHMENT H-14 
 
Annual Transmission Rates – AEP East Operating Companies 
For Network Integration Transmission Service 
 
1. The annual transmission revenue requirement and the gross rate for Network Integration 
Transmission Service for the transmission facilities of American Electric Power (“AEP”) 
under the functional control of PJM will be posted on the PJM website.  The rate 
determined pursuant to Attachment H-14B shall be implemented pursuant to the Formula 
Rate Implementation Protocols set forth in Attachment H-14A.  Service utilizing other 
facilities will be provided at rates determined on a case-by-case basis. 
 
 
2. Determination of monthly charges for AEP Zone: On a monthly basis, revenue credits 
shall be calculated based on the sum of AEP’s share of revenues collected during the 
month from:  (i) the PJM Border Rate under Schedule 7; (ii) Network Integration 
Transmission Service to Non-Zone Network Load under Attachment H-A; and (iii) Firm 
Point-To-Point Transmission Service where the Point of Delivery is internal to the AEP 
Zone. The sum of these revenue credits and potential charges will appear as an adjustment 
(reduction) to the gross monthly rate stated above on a Transmission Customer’s bill in 
that month for service under this schedule. 
 
3. In addition to other rates set forth in this schedule, customers within the AEP East Zone 
shall be charged for recovery of RTO start-up costs at the following rates, each computed 
to four decimal places: 
  
 Annual Rate - $/kW/year = $2,362,185, plus any applicable true-up adjustment, 
divided by the 1 CP demand for the AEP East Zone for the prior calendar year; 
 Monthly Rate - $/kW/month. = Annual Rate divided by 12; 
 Weekly Rate - $/kW/week = Annual Rate divided by 52; 
 Daily Rate - $/kW/day = Weekly Rate divided by 5. 
 For the period November 1, 2005 through March 31, 2006, the rate shall be 
$8.94/MW-month; for the period April 1 through December 31, 2006, the rate 
shall be $8.60/MW-month, thereafter, the rate will be subject to the following 
true-up:  
 
In order to ensure that the charge does not result in either over-recovery or under-
recovery of AEP’s start-up costs, PJM will institute an annual true-up mechanism 
and implement revised charges as of January 1st of each of the years 2007-2019.  
In January of each of those years, PJM will compare the amount collected under 
this charge for the previous year or part thereof with the target annual amount of 
$2,362,185 and calculate the rates that would be needed, given the expected 
billing demands to collect $2,362,185, adjusted for any prior year over-collection 
or under-collection.    In the final year that the rate is collected, PJM will calculate 
the rate to collect five-twelfths of the annual amount ($984,244), plus or minus 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-14 - AEP East 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 2 
any prior year true up amount, by May 31 of that year, and shall charge such rate 
until that amount is collected, whether that date be before or after May 31, 2020. 
 
4.    Within the AEP Zone, a Network Customer’s peak load shall be adjusted to include 
transmission losses equal to 3.3% of energy received for transmission (3.413% at 
delivery) as well as any applicable distribution losses as reflected in applicable state 
tariffs and/or service agreements that contain specific distribution loss factors for said 
Network Customer. Notwithstanding section 15.7 of the Tariff the transmission loss 
factor of 3.3% also shall apply to point-to-point transmission service with a point of 
delivery in the AEP Zone. 
 
5.   The rate in section 1 of this Attachment shall be effective until amended by the 
Transmission Owner(s) within the zone or modified by the Commission. 
 
6.   In addition to the rate set forth in section (1) above, the Network Customer purchasing 
Network Integration transmission Service shall pay for transmission congestion charges, 
and any other applicable charges, in accordance with the provisions of this Tariff, and 
any amounts necessary to reimburse the Transmission Owners for any amounts payable 
to them as sales, excise, “btu,” carbon, value-added, or similar taxes (other than taxes 
based upon or measured by net income) with respect to the amounts payable pursuant to 
the Tariff. 
 
7. Post Settlement of PJM Inadvertent Energy Allocation: 
PJM arranges for the settlement of inadvertent energy charges and payments and recovers 
its costs from LSEs throughout the PJM region.  The inadvertent energy charge or credit 
assigned by PJM to the AEP Zone each hour will be allocated to each LSE in the AEP 
Zone in proportion to the LSE’s share of the AEP Zone load in such hour. 
  
8. Methodology for Allocation of PJM Assessments Related to Differences Between the 
AEP Zone Average Hourly LMPs and the AEP Zone Residual Load Average Hourly 
LMPs: PJM includes on AEP’s monthly Transmission Owner statement a credit or charge 
for Implicit Transmission Congestion in respect of the hourly variance of the average LMP 
for loads not utilizing specific bus aggregate LMPs (Residual Load), and the LMP averaged 
over all load in the AEP Zone.  This credit or charge represents an over or under collection of 
load LMPs from LSEs within the AEP Zone that have not elected to use a specific nodal 
aggregate LMP.  Until PJM develops the accounting procedures necessary to avoid creation 
of an over or under collection of LMP charges from LSEs that do not utilize specific bus 
aggregate LMPs, AEP will allocate such credits or charges to LSEs in the AEP Zone that 
have not elected to use a specific bus aggregate LMP, in proportion to their hourly load and 
the difference each hour between the AEP Zone average LMP and the AEP Zone residual 
average LMP (the AEP Zone average LMP excluding the load and costs for customers 
electing specific nodal LMPs). 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-14A - AEP East 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-405-001 - Page 1 
