ATTACHMENT H-3G 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
 
Section 1 Annual Updates 
 
a. The Annual Transmission Revenue Requirements applicable under Attachment H 
and the Network Integration Transmission Service and Point-to-Point rates 
derived therefrom shall be applicable to services on and after June 1 of a given 
calendar year through May 31 of the subsequent calendar year (the “Rate Year”). 
 
b. On or before May 15 of each year, Old Dominion shall recalculate its Annual 
Transmission Revenue Requirements, producing the “Annual Update” for the 
upcoming Rate Year, and: 
 
(i) post such Annual Update on PJM’s Internet website via link to the 
Transmission Services page or a similar successor page; and 
 
(ii)  file such Annual Update with the FERC as an informational filing. 
 
c. If the date for making the Annual Update posting/filing should fall on a weekend 
or a holiday recognized by the FERC, then the posting/filing shall be due on the 
next business day. 
 
d. The date on which the last of the events listed in Section 1.b. or 1.c. occurs shall 
be that year’s “Publication Date.” 
 
e. Upon written request for a particular year’s Annual Update by any firm network 
customer, any retail regulator or any official consumer advocate in the Delmarva 
Zone, Old Dominion will promptly make available to such entity and/or a 
consultant designated by it, a “workable” Excel file containing that year’s Annual 
Update data. 
 
f. The Annual Update for the Rate Year: 
 
(i) shall, to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, be based upon Old 
Dominion’s FERC Form No. 1 data for the most recent calendar year, and 
to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, be based upon the books and 
records of Old Dominion consistent with FERC accounting policies, with 
the exception of the instance where facilities are purchased and Form 1 
data are not yet available in which case estimates will be used initially but 
actual Form 1 data will be employed in the subsequent annual true-up 
calculations;  
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-3G - Old Dominion 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 2 
(ii) shall, as and to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, provide 
supporting documentation for data not otherwise available in the FERC 
Form No. 1 that are used in the Formula Rate;1 
 
(iii) shall provide notice of material changes in Old Dominion’s accounting 
policies and practices from those in effect for the calendar year upon 
which the immediately preceding Annual Update was based (“Material 
Accounting Changes”);2 
 
(iv) shall be subject to challenge and review only in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in this Attachment H-3G and only as to the 
appropriateness of the application of the Formula Rate according to its 
terms and the procedures in this Attachment H-3G (including terms and 
procedures related to challenges concerning Material Accounting 
Changes); and 
 
(v) shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be subject to 
challenge by seeking to modify the Formula Rate (i.e., all such 
modifications to the Formula Rate – including return on equity – will 
require, as applicable, a Federal Power Act Section 205 or Section 206 
filing). 
 
g. Formula Rate inputs for (i) rate of return on common equity; (ii) depreciation 
rates, and (iii) “Post-Employment Benefits other than Pension” pursuant to 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers’ Accounting 
for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions (“PBOP”) charges shall be stated 
values to be used in the rate formula until changed pursuant to an FPA Section 
205 or 206 filing. 
 
h. Extraordinary property losses recorded in FERC Account 182.1 shall be 
amortized for Formula Rate purposes in the Annual Update based on stated values 
that will be used until the amortization is completed or changed pursuant to an 
FPA Section 205 or 206 filing. 
 
________________________________________ 
1 It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations 
described therein, that each input to the Formula Rate will be either taken directly from the 
FERC Form No. 1 or reconcilable to the FERC Form No. 1 by the application of clearly 
identified and supported information.  Where the reconciliation is provided through a worksheet 
included in the filed Formula Rate template, the inputs to the worksheet must meet this 
transparency standard, and doing so will satisfy this transparency requirement for the amounts 
that are output from the worksheet and input to the main body of the Formula Rate. 
2 Such notice may incorporate by reference applicable disclosure statements filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-3G - Old Dominion 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 3 
Section 2 Annual Review Procedures 
 
Each Annual Update shall be subject to the following review procedures (“Annual 
Review Procedures”): 
 
a. Any interested party shall have up to one hundred fifty (150) days after the 
Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of Old 
Dominion) to review the calculations (“Review Period”) and to notify Old 
Dominion in writing of any specific challenges, including challenges related to 
Material Accounting Changes, to the application of the Formula Rate 
(“Preliminary Challenge”). 
 
b. Interested parties shall have up to one hundred twenty (120) days after each 
annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent 
of Old Dominion) to serve reasonable information requests on Old Dominion; 
provided, however, that the potentially interested parties shall make a good faith 
effort to submit consolidated sets of information requests that limit the number 
and overlap of questions to the maximum extent practicable.  Such information 
requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine if Old Dominion has 
properly applied the Formula Rate and the procedures in this Attachment H-3G, 
and shall not otherwise be directed to ascertain whether the Formula Rate is just 
and reasonable. In addition, such information requests shall not solicit information 
concerning costs or allocations where the costs or allocation method have been 
determined in the context of other Annual Updates, except that such information 
requests shall be permitted if they seek to determine if there has been a material 
change in circumstances. 
 
c. Old Dominion shall make a good faith effort to respond to information requests 
pertaining to the Annual Update within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of 
such requests.  Old Dominion may give reasonable priority to responding to 
requests that satisfy the practicable coordination and consolidation provision of 
Section 2.b. above. 
 
d. Preliminary or Formal Challenges related to Material Accounting Changes are not 
intended to serve as a means of pursuing other objections to the Formula Rate.  
Failure to make a Preliminary Challenge with respect to a Material Accounting 
Change in an Annual Update shall act as a bar with respect to that Annual Update 
but shall not bar a subsequent Preliminary Challenge related to a subsequent 
Annual Update to the extent such Material Accounting Change affects the 
subsequent Annual Update. 
 
e. Preliminary or Formal Challenges related to Material Accounting Changes shall 
be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in Section 3, except that 
Section 3.c. shall not apply.  In any proceeding initiated to address a Preliminary 
or Formal Challenge or sua sponte by the Commission, a party or parties (other 
than Old Dominion) seeking to modify the Formula Rate in any respect shall bear 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-3G - Old Dominion 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 4 
the burden of proving that the Formula Rate is no longer just and reasonable 
without such modification and that the proposed modification is just, reasonable 
and consistent with the original intent of the Formula Rate and the procedures in 
this Attachment H-3G; provided, however, that in any such proceeding, in 
determining whether the Formula Rate is no longer just and reasonable without 
modification to reflect a Material Accounting Change and whether the proposed 
modification is just and reasonable, no offsets unrelated to the applicable Material 
Accounting Changes may be considered. 
 
Section 3 Resolution of Challenges 
 
a. If Old Dominion and any interested party(ies) have not resolved any Preliminary 
Challenge to the Annual Update within twenty-one (21) days after the Review 
Period, an interested party shall have an additional twenty-one (21) days (unless 
such period is extended with the written consent of Old Dominion to continue 
efforts to resolve the Preliminary Challenge) to make a Formal Challenge with the 
FERC, pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 385.206, which shall be served on Old Dominion 
by electronic service on the date of such filing.  However, there shall be no need 
to make a Formal Challenge or to await conclusion of the time periods in Section 
2 if the FERC already has initiated a proceeding to consider the Annual Update.  
A party’s Formal Challenge may not raise any issue that was not the subject of 
that party’s Preliminary Challenge during the applicable Review Period. 
 
b. Any response by Old Dominion to a Formal Challenge must be submitted to the 
FERC within thirty (30) days of the date of the filing of the Formal Challenge, 
and shall be served on the filing party(ies) by electronic service on the date of 
such filing. 
 
c. Except as provided in Section 2.e, in any proceeding initiated by the FERC 
concerning the Annual Update or in response to a Formal Challenge, Old 
Dominion shall bear the burden of proving that it has reasonably applied the terms 
of the Formula Rate, and the applicable procedures in these Formula Rate 
Implementation Protocols, in that year’s Annual Update. 
 
d. Subject to judicial review of FERC orders, each Annual Update shall become 
final and no longer subject to challenge pursuant to these Annual Review 
Protocols or by any other means by the FERC or any other entity on the later to 
occur of (i) passage of the twenty-one (21) day period (or extended period, if 
applicable) for making a Formal Challenge if no such challenge has been made 
and the FERC has not initiated a proceeding to consider the Annual Update, or (ii) 
a final FERC order issued in response to a Formal Challenge or a proceeding 
initiated by the FERC to consider the Annual Update. 
 
e. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in 
any way the right of Old Dominion to file unilaterally, pursuant to Section 205 of 
the Federal Power Act and the regulations thereunder, changes to the Formula 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-3G - Old Dominion 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 5 
Rate or any of its inputs (including, but not limited to, rate of return and 
Transmission Incentive Mechanisms) or the right of any other party to request 
such changes pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal Power Act and the 
regulations thereunder. 
 
f. Subject to Section 2.e above, it is recognized that resolution of Formal 
 
g. Challenges concerning Material Accounting Changes may necessitate adjustments 
to the Formula Rate input data for the applicable Annual Update or changes to the 
rate formula to achieve a just and reasonable end result consistent with the intent 
of the Formula Rate. 
 
Section 4 Changes to Annual Informational Filings 
 
Any changes to the data inputs, including but not limited to revisions to Old Dominion’s 
FERC Form No. 1, or as the result of any FERC proceeding to consider the Annual 
Update, or as a result of the procedures set forth herein, shall be incorporated into the 
Formula Rate and the charges produced by the Formula Rate (with interest determined in 
accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 38.19a) in the Annual Update for the next effective Rate 
Period.  This reconciliation mechanism shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments 
and any refunds or surcharges.  However, actual refunds or surcharges (with interest 
determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 38.19a) shall be made in the event that the 
Formula Rate is replaced by a stated rate for Old Dominion.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4 - Jersey Central Power & Light  
Effective Date: 8/22/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1653-001 - Page 1 
