[ATTACHMENT I - Part 12 of 12]

(i) An Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model that is based on the 
existing allocation year with transmission outages removed (i.e., the 
transmission assumed out of service in the base markets model is assumed 
to be in service).  All existing stage 1 and stage 2 Auction Revenue Rights 
are modeled as fixed injection withdrawal pairs. 
 
(ii) A 10 year allocation model with all eligible stage 1A Auction Revenue 
Rights for each year including base load growth for each year. 
 
(f) Simultaneous feasibility tests pursuant to section (e) above utilize a transfer 
analysis to determine the flow impacts.  The transfer analysis is performed by injecting at the 
source and withdrawing at the sink and measuring the impacts on the facilities.  Additional 
details are provided in the PJM Manuals and related explanatory materials posted on the PJM 
website such as the PJM Whitepaper entitled “PJM Incremental Auction Revenue Rights Model 
Development and Analysis.” 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.6 New Stage 1 Resources 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 1 
7.6 New Stage 1 Resources. 
 
A Network Service User may request the addition of new stage 1 resources to the stage 1 
resource list if the capacity of the Stage 1 generation resources for a Zone determined pursuant to 
Section 7.4.2(b) is less than sixty percent (60%) of the of peak load in the Zone.  Requests made 
pursuant to this section shall be subject to Section 7.5(c) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement and 
shall be limited to generation resources either owned by the requesting party or those subject to a 
bona fide firm energy and capacity supply contracts where such contract is executed by the 
requesting party to meet load obligations for which it is eligible to receive stage 1 Auction 
Revenue Rights and remains in force and effect for a minimum term of ten (10) years. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.7 Alternate Stage 1 Resour 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
7.7 Alternate Stage 1 Resources. 
 
A Network Service User may replace one or more of its existing stage 1 resources and its 
associated megawatt amount of Auction Revenue Rights determined pursuant to Section 7.4.2(b) 
with an alternate resource.  If the Network Service User making such request accepts the 
megawatt amount of Auction Revenue Rights associated with the alternate resource as 
established by the Office of the Interconnection, the alternate resource shall replace the relevant 
existing stage 1 resource prospectively beginning with the next annual Auction Revenue Rights 
allocation.  If the Network Service User making such request rejects the megawatt amount of 
Auction Revenue Rights established by the Office of the Interconnection for the alternate 
resource, the Auction Revenue Rights associated with the original stage 1 resource shall remain 
in effect for the Network Service User.  Requests made pursuant to this section shall be subject 
to the following: 
 
• Requests made pursuant to this section shall be subject to Section 7.5(c);  
 
• Eligible alternate resources shall be limited to generation resources owned by the 
requesting party or bona fide firm energy and capacity supply contracts that meet the 
requirements set forth in Section 7.6 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement; 
 
• Alternate resources shall be of an electrically equivalent megawatt amount, which means 
that relative to the existing resource, the alternate resource cannot consume a greater 
amount of transmission capability on facilities binding in the current Auction Revenue 
Rights allocation or future stage 1A allocations, and cannot allow megawatt flow(s) to 
exceed applicable ratings on any other facilities; 
 
• The total amount of requested alternate stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights cannot exceed 
the original awarded stage 1 megawatt amounts of Auction Revenue Rights associated 
with the original historical resource as determined pursuant to Section 7.4.2(b). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.8 Elective Upgrade Auction 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 1 
7.8 Elective Upgrade Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
 (a) In addition to any Incremental Auction Revenue Rights established under the PJM 
Tariff, any party may elect to fully fund Network Upgrades to obtain Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights pursuant to this section, provided that Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
granted pursuant to this section shall be simultaneously feasible with outstanding Auction 
Revenue Rights, which shall include stage 1 and stage 2 Auction Revenue Rights, and against 
stage 1A Auction Revenue Right capability for the future 10 year period as determined by the 
Office of the Interconnection pursuant to Section 7.8(b) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement.  A 
request made pursuant to this section shall specify a source, sink and megawatt amount, where 
the source and sink each meet the criteria described for stage 1 in Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, sections 7.4.2(b) and 7.4.2(c). 
 
 (b) The Office of the Interconnection shall assess the simultaneous feasibility of the 
requested Incremental Auction Revenue Rights and the outstanding Auction Revenue Rights 
against the existing base system Auction Revenue Right capability and stage 1A Auction 
Revenue Right capability for the future 10 year period pursuant to Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 7.5.  This preliminary assessment will determine the incremental flow impact 
necessary on facilities.   
 
(c) The incremental flow impact represents the incremental capability required on a 
facility to ensure the requested Incremental Auction Revenue Rights can be made feasible.  This 
required capability is used to determine the upgrades required to accommodate the requested 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights and ensure all outstanding Auction Revenue Rights are 
simultaneously feasible.  Additional details are provided in the PJM Manuals and related 
explanatory materials posted on the PJM website such as the PJM Whitepaper entitled “PJM 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights Model Development and Analysis.” 
 
(i) For Incremental Auction Revenue Rights requests, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall use an Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model 
to perform the simultaneous feasibility test detailed in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.5.  The Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights model shall consist of an Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
model and the 10 year stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights model.  An 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model uses the same transmission 
system model used in the annual Auction Revenue Rights process, except 
any modeled transmission outages included in the Auction Revenue 
Rights process are removed (i.e., the transmission assumed out of service 
in the base markets model is assumed to be in service).  Auction Revenue 
Rights requests that were denied or pro-rated in the annual Auction 
Revenue Rights allocation as a result of assumed transmission outages 
also are restored in the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model 
because the transmission is assumed to be in service for purposes of this 
model.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.8 Elective Upgrade Auction 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 2 
(ii) If the incremental market flows created by the Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights request cause facilities to be limited or increase the 
market flow on already limited facilities in either the Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights model or the 10 year stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights 
model, increased system capability will be required in order for the Office 
of the Interconnection to grant the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
request.  This required incremental capability is used to determine the 
upgrades required to accommodate the requested Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights and ensure all outstanding Auction Revenue Rights 
(including any pro-rated but restored Auction Revenue Rights requests) 
are simultaneously feasible.  Additional details are provided in the PJM 
Manuals and related explanatory materials posted on the PJM website 
such as the PJM Whitepaper entitled “PJM Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights Model Development and Analysis.” 
 
(iii) In addition to the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model, the Office 
of the Interconnection uses a planning model that consists of the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan model used by the Office of the 
Interconnection to study system needs and proposed projects five years 
forward combined with modeled in-service and planned generation and 
forecasted load.  The planning model includes transmission system 
upgrades that are ahead of the proposed Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights request in the New Services Queue.  The upgrades required for the 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights request must achieve additional 
incremental capability over and above any planned baseline or 
Supplemental Project upgrades, including upgrades related to a 
Supplemental Project with a projected in-service date later than the 
applicable planning case year. 
 
 (d) If a party elects to fund upgrades to obtain Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
pursuant to this section, no less than forty-five (45) days prior to the in-service date of the 
relevant upgrades, as determined by the Office of the Interconnection, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall notify the party of the actual amount of Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights that will be granted to the party based on the allocation process established pursuant to 
Section 231.1 of Part VI of the Tariff. 
 
 (e) Incremental Auction Revenue Rights established pursuant to this section shall be 
effective for the lesser of thirty (30) years, or the life of the project, from the in-service date of 
the Network Upgrade(s).  At any time during this thirty-year period (or the life of the Network 
Upgrade, whichever is less), in lieu of continuing this thirty-year Auction Revenue Right, the 
owner of the right shall have a one-time choice to switch to an optional mechanism, whereby, on 
an annual basis, it will have the choice to request an Auction Revenue Right during the annual 
Auction Revenue Rights allocation process between the same source and sink, provided the 
Auction Revenue Right is simultaneously feasible.  A party that is granted Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights pursuant to this section may return such rights at any time, provided that the 
Office of the Interconnection determines that it can simultaneously accommodate all remaining 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.8 Elective Upgrade Auction 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 3 
outstanding Auction Revenue Rights following the return of such Auction Revenue Rights.  In 
the event a party returns Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, it shall retain no further rights 
regarding such Incremental Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
 (f) No Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall be granted pursuant to this section 
if the costs associated with funding the associated Network Upgrades are included in the rate 
base of a public utility and on which a regulated return is earned. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.9 Residual Auction Revenue 
Effective Date: 5/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-934-000 - Page 1 
7.9 Residual Auction Revenue Rights 
 
 (a) As necessary in each Planning Period PJM shall calculate Residual Auction 
Revenue Rights for Auction Revenue Rights pathways that were prorated pursuant to section 
7.4.2(h) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement.  Residual Auction Revenue Rights calculated pursuant 
to this section shall be determined prior to the increase in transmission capability, including the 
return to service of existing transmission capability, that creates the Residual Auction Revenue 
Rights. 
 
 (b) Network Service Users and  Qualifying Transmission Customers allocated stage 1 
Auction Revenue Rights pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, sections 7.4.2(a)-(c) that 
were subject to proration pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.2(h) shall be 
eligible to receive Residual Auction Revenue Rights.  Residual Auction Revenue Rights shall be 
allocated pursuant to the following schedule: 
 
(i)   The initial allocation of Residual Auction Revenue Rights shall be to 
holders of prorated stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights in an amount equal to the 
difference between the allocated stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights and the 
requested stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights.  
 
(ii)  Residual Auction Revenue Rights remaining after an allocation made 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.9(b)(i) shall be allocated 
to holders of prorated stage 1B Auction Revenue Rights in an amount equal to the 
difference between the allocated stage 1B Auction Revenue Rights and the 
requested stage 1B Auction Revenue Rights.  
 
(iii)  Residual Auction Revenue Rights remaining after allocations made 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, sections 7.9(b)(i) and (ii) shall not 
be allocated to any entity and shall not be considered by the Office of the 
Interconnection in its administration of Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
7. 
 
 (c) The sum of a Network Service User’s and Qualifying Transmission Customer’s 
Residual Auction Revenue Rights awarded pursuant to this section and its stage 1 and 2 Auction 
Revenue Rights awarded in an annual allocation shall not exceed the entity’s peak load. 
 
(d) Residual Auction Revenue Rights awarded pursuant to this section shall be 
effective on the first day of the month in a Planning Period the increase in transmission 
capability creating the Residual Auction Revenue Rights is included in the administration of 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.1.1(a). 
 
(e) Residual Auction Revenue Rights awarded pursuant to this section shall be 
subject to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.2(e). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.9 Residual Auction Revenue 
Effective Date: 5/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-934-000 - Page 2 
(f)  The value of Residual Auction Revenue Rights awarded pursuant to this section, 
determined as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.3(b), shall be positive. 
Negatively valued Residual Auction Revenue Rights will not be awarded.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.10 Financial Settlement 
Effective Date: 1/1/2011 - Docket #: ER11-2527-000 - Page 1 
7.10  Financial Settlement  
 
Financial credits and charges for Auction Revenue Rights and Financial Transmission Rights, 
including associated auction charges, shall be calculated and accrued on a daily basis, and 
included in PJMSettlement’s regular invoice to each participant for the relevant period of such 
invoice. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.11 PJMSettlement as Cou 
Effective Date: 1/1/2011 - Docket #: ER11-2527-000 - Page 1 
7.11 PJMSettlement as Counterparty 
 
(a) Auction Revenue Rights and Financial Transmission Rights provide certain contractual 
rights and obligations for the holders of such rights set forth in this Schedule 1, the Agreement, and 
the PJM Tariff.  PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty with respect to the contractual rights and 
obligations of the holders of Auction Revenue Rights, and Financial Transmission Rights. 
 
(b) As specified in sections 5.2.2(d) and 7 of this Schedule 1, Market Participants may trade 
Financial Transmission Rights and Auction Revenue Rights and under certain circumstances they 
may convert Auction Revenue Rights to Financial Transmission Rights. PJMSettlement shall not be 
the counterparty with respect to bilateral transfers of Financial Transmission Rights or Auction 
Revenue Rights between Market Participants or the conversion of Auction Revenue Rights to 
Financial Transmission Rights. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM 
Effective Date: 3/15/2014 - Docket #: ER14-822-000 - Page 1 
8. EMERGENCY AND PRE-EMERGENCY LOAD RESPONSE PROGRAM 
     

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 8.1 Emergency Load Response a 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-244-000 - Page 1 
8.1 Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program Options  
 
The Emergency Load Response Program and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program are 
designed to provide a method by which end-use customers may be compensated by PJM for 
reducing load immediately prior to an anticipated emergency event (“pre-emergency event”) or 
during an emergency event.  As used in the Emergency Load Response Program and Pre-
Emergency Load Response Program, the term “end-use customer” refers to an individual 
location or aggregation of locations that consume electricity as identified by a unique electric 
distribution company account number.  There are two options for participation in the Emergency 
Load Response Program and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program: 
 
♦ Full Program Option 
 
Participants in the Full Program Option receive, pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD and 
as applicable, (i) an energy payment for load reductions during a pre-emergency or 
emergency event, and (ii) a capacity payment for the ability to reduce load during a pre-
emergency event or emergency event measured as set forth in the Reporting and 
Compliance provisions below. 
 
♦ Energy Only Option 
 
Participants in the Energy Only Option receive only an energy payment for load 
reductions during an emergency event. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 8.2 - Participant Qualificati 
Effective Date: 2/22/2023 - Docket #: ER23-725-000 - Page 1 
8.2 Participant Qualifications 
 
Two primary types of distributed resources are candidates to participate in the PJM Emergency 
Load Response Program and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program:  
 
On-Site Generators (As defined in Operating Agreement, section 1) 
 
Load Reductions 
 
A participant that has the ability to reduce a measurable and verifiable portion of 
its load, as metered on an EDC account basis. 
 
Only Members or Special Members may participate in the Emergency Load Response Program 
and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program by complying with all of the requirements of the 
applicable Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority and all other applicable federal, state 
and local regulatory entities together with the Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency 
Load Response Program provisions herein, including, but not limited to, the Registration section. 
Special membership provisions have been established for program participants in the Energy 
Only Option, as described below.  The special membership provisions shall not apply to program 
participants in the Full Program Option.  Any existing PJM Member or Special Member may 
participate in the Emergency Load Response Program and Pre-Emergency Load Response 
Program on behalf of non-members as the Curtailment Service Provider. All payments are made 
to the PJM Member or Special Member in such case. Curtailment Service Providers must 
become signatories to the PJM Operating Agreement, as described in the PJM Manual for 
Administrative Services for the Operating Agreement of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
However, for Special Members the $5,000 annual member fee, the $1,500 application fee, and 
liability for Member defaults are waived, along with the following other modifications: 
 
Special Members are limited to be PJM Market Sellers; 
Voting privileges and sector designation are waived; 
Thirty day notice for waiting period is waived; 
Requirement for 24/7 control center coverage is waived; 
No PJM-supported user group capability is permitted. 
 
To participate in the Emergency Load Response Program and Pre-Emergency Load Response 
Program, the Demand Resource must: 
 
Be capable of reducing at least 100 kW of load 
Be capable of receiving notification of a Load Management Event. 
The location shall not be Critical Natural Gas Infrastructure. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 8.3 - Metering Requirements 
Effective Date: 8/3/2015 - Docket #: ER15-1849-000 - Page 1 
8.3 Metering Requirements 
 
The Curtailment Service Provider is responsible to ensure that the Emergency Load Response 
Program and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program Participants have metering equipment that 
provides integrated hourly kWh values on an electric distribution company account basis.  Non-
interval metered residential customers that have Direct Load Control may use current statistical 
sampling of interval metering equipment on an electric distribution company account basis in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals and subject to PJM approval.  The metering equipment shall 
either meet the electric distribution company requirements for accuracy or have a maximum 
error of two percent over the full range of the metering equipment (including Potential 
Transformers and Current Transformers) and the metering equipment and associated data shall 
meet the requirements set forth herein and in the PJM Manuals.  The Emergency Load Response 
Program and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program participants must meter reductions in 
demand by using either of the following two methods: 
 
 a) Using metering equipment that is capable of recording integrated hourly values 
for generation running to serve local load (net of that used by the generator); or 
 
 b) Using metering equipment that provides actual load change by measuring actual 
load before and after the reduction request, such that there is a valid integrated hourly value for 
the hour prior to the event and each hour during the event. This value cannot be estimated nor 
can it be averaged over some historical period.  This load will be metered on an electric 
distribution company account basis, or metered on a representative sample of Electric 
Distribution Company accounts for non-interval metered residential Direct Load Control in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
Metered load reductions will be adjusted up to consider transmission and distribution losses as 
submitted by the Curtailment Service Provider and verified by PJM with the electric distribution 
company.  
 
The installed metering equipment must be one of the following: 
 
 a) Metering equipment used for retail electric service;  
 
 b) Customer-owned metering equipment or metering equipment acquired by the 
Curtailment Service Provider, approved by PJM, that is read electronically by PJM, in 
accordance with the requirements herein and in the PJM Manuals; or 
 
 c) Customer-owned metering equipment or metering equipment acquired by the 
Curtailment Service Provider, approved by PJM, that is read by the customer (or the Curtailment 
Service Provider), and such readings are then forwarded to PJM, in accordance with the 
requirements set forth herein and in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Nothing herein changes the existence of one recognized meter by the state commissions as the 
official billing meter for recording consumption. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 8.4 - Registration 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 1 
8.4 Registration 
 
1.  Curtailment Service Providers must complete the applicable PJM Load Response Program 
Registration Form (“Registration Form”) that is posted on the PJM website (www.pjm.com) for 
each end-use customer, or aggregation of end-use customers, pursuant to the requirements set 
forth in the PJM Manuals. Because of the required electric distribution company ten Business 
Day review period, as described herein, Curtailment Service Providers shall submit completed 
Registration Forms to the Office of the Interconnection no later than one day before the tenth 
Business Day preceding the relevant Delivery Year.  All registrations that have not been 
approved on or before May 31st preceding the relevant Delivery Year shall be rejected by the 
Office of the Interconnection. To the extent that a completed Registration Form is submitted to 
the Office of the Interconnection  prior to one day before the tenth Business Day preceding the 
relevant Delivery Year and such registration is rejected by the electric distribution company or 
the Office of the Interconnection because of incorrect data on the Registration Form, such 
registration may be resubmitted by the Curtailment Service Provider before May 31st preceding 
the relevant Delivery Year, but such registration will be rejected by the Office of the 
Interconnection unless the electric distribution company  has verified the registration on or 
before May 31st preceding the relevant Delivery Year. Incomplete Registration Forms will be 
rejected by the Office of the Interconnection; Curtailment Service Providers may not resubmit 
registrations that were rejected for being incomplete unless they are able to do so no later than 
one day before the tenth Business Day preceding the relevant Delivery Year.  The following 
general steps will be followed: 
 
2. For end-use customers of an electric distribution company that distributed more than 4 million 
MWh in the previous fiscal year: 
 
 a. The Curtailment Service Provider completes the Registration Form located on the 
PJM website.  PJM reviews the application and ensures that the qualifications are met, including 
verifying that the appropriate metering exists. After confirming that an entity has met all of the 
qualifications to be an Emergency Load Response or Pre-Emergency Load Response Program 
participant, PJM shall notify the appropriate electric distribution company of an Emergency 
Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program participant's registration and 
request verification as to whether the load that may be reduced is subject to laws or regulations 
of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority that prohibit or condition the end-use 
customer’s participation in PJM’s Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load 
Response Programs pursuant to the process described below. The electric distribution company 
has ten Business Days to respond.  An electric distribution company which seeks to assert that 
the laws or regulations of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority prohibit or condition 
(which condition the electric distribution company asserts has not been satisfied) an end-use 
customer’s participation in PJM’s Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load 
Response program shall provide to PJM, within the referenced ten Business Day review period, 
either:  (a) an order, resolution or ordinance of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority 
prohibiting or conditioning the end-use customer’s participation, (b) an opinion of the Relevant 
Electric Retail Regulatory Authority’s legal counsel attesting to the existence of a regulation or 
law prohibiting or conditioning the end-use customer’s participation, or (c) an opinion of the 
state Attorney General, on behalf of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority, attesting 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 8.4 - Registration 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 2 
to the existence of a regulation or law prohibiting or conditioning the end-use customer's 
participation.   
 
i. If evidence provided by an electric distribution company to the Office of 
the Interconnection indicates that a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory 
Authority law or regulation prohibits or conditions (which condition the 
electric distribution company asserts has not been satisfied) the end-use 
customer’s participation and is received by the Office of the 
Interconnection on or after May 31st preceding the applicable Delivery 
Year, then the existing end-use customer’s registration for Demand 
Resource (as defined in the Reliability Assurance Agreement) will remain 
in effect for the applicable Delivery Year.  If evidence provided by an 
electric distribution company to the Office of the Interconnection indicates 
that a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority law or regulation 
prohibits or conditions (which condition the electric distribution company 
asserts has not been satisfied) the end-use customer’s participation and is 
received by the Office of the Interconnection before May 31st preceding 
the applicable Delivery Year and the Curtailment Service Provider does 
not provide supporting documentation to the Office of the Interconnection 
on or before May 31st preceding the applicable Delivery Year 
demonstrating that the Curtailment Service Provider had an executed 
contract with the end-use customer for Demand Resource participation 
before the date the Demand Resource cleared the applicable Reliability 
Pricing Model Auction, and that the date that the Demand Resource 
cleared the applicable Reliability Pricing Model Auction was prior to the 
effective date of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority law or 
regulation prohibiting or conditioning the end-use customer’s 
participation, then, unless the below exception applies, the existing end-
use customer’s registration for Demand Resource participation shall be 
deemed to be terminated for the applicable Delivery Year, and the 
Curtailment Service Provider will be subject to the Reliability Pricing 
Model provisions, as specified in Attachment DD of the PJM Tariff. 
 
 b. In the absence of a response from the electric distribution company within the 
referenced ten Business Day review period, the Office of the Interconnection shall assume that 
the load to be reduced is not subject to laws or regulations of the Relevant Electric Retail 
Regulatory Authority that prohibit or condition the end-use customer’s participation in PJM’s 
Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Programs, and the Office of the 
Interconnection shall accept the registration, provided it meets all other Emergency Load 
Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program requirements. 
 
 c. For those registrations terminated pursuant to this section, all Emergency Load 
Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response participant activity incurred prior to the 
termination date of the registration shall be settled by PJM in accordance with the terms and 
conditions contained in the PJM Tariff, PJM Operating Agreement and PJM Manuals. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 8.4 - Registration 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 3 
3. For end-use customers of an electric distribution company that distributed 4 million MWh or 
less in the previous fiscal year: 
 
 a. The Curtailment Service Provider completes the Emergency Registration Form 
located on the PJM website. PJM reviews the application and ensures that the qualifications are 
met, including verifying that the appropriate metering exists. After confirming that an entity has 
met all of the qualifications to be an Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load 
Response participant, PJM shall notify the appropriate electric distribution company of an 
Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response participant’s registration and 
request verification as to whether the load that may be reduced is permitted to participate by the 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority pursuant to the process described below. The 
electric distribution company has ten Business Days to respond. If the electric distribution 
company verifies that the load that may be reduced is permitted or conditionally permitted 
(which condition the electric distribution company asserts has been satisfied) to participate in the 
Emergency Load Response Program and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program, then the 
electric distribution company must provide to the Office of the Interconnection within the 
referenced ten Business Day review period either:  (a) an order, resolution or ordinance of the 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority permitting or conditionally permitting the end-use 
customer’s participation, (b) an opinion of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority’s 
legal counsel attesting to the existence of a regulation or law permitting or conditionally 
permitting the end-use customer’s participation, or (c) an opinion of the state Attorney General, 
on behalf of the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority, attesting to the existence of a 
regulation or law permitting or conditionally permitting the end-use customer’s participation. 
 
i. If the electric distribution company denies the end-use customer’s 
Demand Resource (as defined in the Reliability Assurance Agreement) 
registration on or before May 31st preceding the applicable Delivery Year 
and the Curtailment Service Provider does not provide the above 
referenced Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority evidence  to the 
Office of the Interconnection on or before May 31st preceding the 
applicable Delivery Year demonstrating that the Curtailment Service 
Provider had Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority permission or 
conditional permission (which condition the electric distribution company 
asserts has been satisfied) for the end-use customer’s participation and an 
executed contract with the end-use customer Demand Resource before the 
date the Demand Resource cleared the applicable Reliability Pricing 
Model Auction  then, unless the below exception applies, the existing end-
use customer’s registration for Demand Resource participation shall be 
deemed to be terminated for the applicable Delivery Year and the 
Curtailment Service Provider will be subject to the Reliability Pricing 
Model provisions, as specified in Attachment DD of the PJM Tariff. 
 
 b. In the absence of a response from the electric distribution company within the 
referenced ten Business Day review period, the Office of the Interconnection shall reject the 
registration.  If it is able to do so in compliance with all of the Emergency Load Response and 
Pre-Emergency Load Response Program requirements, including the registration section, the 
Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response participant may submit a new 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 8.4 - Registration 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 4 
registration to the Office of the Interconnection for consideration if a prior registration has been 
rejected pursuant to the terms of the Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load 
Response Program provisions. 
 
 c. For those registrations terminated pursuant to this section, all Emergency Load 
Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response participant activity incurred prior to the 
termination date of the registration shall be settled by PJMSettlement in accordance with the 
terms and conditions contained in the PJM Tariff, PJM Operating Agreement and PJM Manuals. 
 
4.  PJM will inform the requesting Curtailment Service Provider of acceptance into the 
Emergency Load Response Program and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program and notify the 
appropriate electric distribution company of the requesting Curtailment Service Provider’s 
acceptance into the program, or notifies the requesting Curtailment Service Provider and 
appropriate electric distribution company of PJM’s rejection of the requesting participant’s 
registration. 
 
5.  Any end-use customer intending to run distributed generating units in support of local load 
for the purpose of participating in this program must represent in writing to PJM that it holds all 
applicable environmental and use permits for running those generators.  Continuing participation 
in this program will be deemed as a continuing representation by the owner that each time its 
distributed generating unit is run in accordance with this program, it is being run in compliance 
with all applicable permits, including any emissions, run-time limit or other constraint on plant 
operations that may be imposed by such permits. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.5 Pre-Emergency Opera 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-244-000 - Page 1 
8.5 Pre-Emergency Operations 
 
All participants in the Pre-Emergency Load Response Program shall be subject to the operation 
procedures herein, unless the participant can demonstrate its Demand Resource Registration: (1) 
relies on Behind the Meter generation to fulfill its load reduction obligations; (2) the Demand 
Resource Registration has environmental restrictions imposed on it by Applicable Laws and 
Regulations that limit the Demand Resource Registration’s ability to operate only in emergency 
conditions; and (3) such limitation exists for any period of time.  For the purposes of Section 8, 
emergency conditions shall be defined either by the express terms of the Applicable Law or 
Regulation, or if not set forth therein shall be deemed to exist if PJM has declared a NERC 
Energy Emergency Alert Level 2, as defined in the applicable NERC Standards.  If these three 
criteria are met, the participant shall be subject to the emergency operation procedures contained 
in Section 8.6.  In such case, the Curtailment Service Provider shall submit a request for the relevant 
Demand Resource Registration(s) to be an emergency (versus pre-emergency) Demand Resource 
Registration to the Office of the Interconnection, at the time the registration is submitted in 
applicable PJM system in accordance with this Agreement.  A Curtailment Service Provider shall 
not submit a request for an exception unless it has done its due diligence to confirm that the 
Demand Resource Registration meets the requirements referenced herein and has obtained from 
the end-use customer documentation supporting the exception request. The Curtailment Service 
Provider shall provide the Office of the Interconnection with a copy of such supporting 
documentation within three (3) Business Days of a request therefor.  Failure to provide such 
supporting documentation by the deadline shall result in the Demand Resource Registration 
being subject to the pre-emergency procedures herein.   
 
PJM will initiate a pre-emergency event prior to the declaration of a Maximum Generation 
Emergency or an emergency event when practicable. A pre-emergency event is implemented 
when economic resources are not adequate to serve load and maintain reserves or maintain 
system reliability, and prior to proceeding into emergency procedures.  Understanding the 
primary responsibility of the Office of the Interconnection to maintain system security, the 
Office of the Interconnection will strive to exhaust, but it is not obligated to exhaust, all 
economic resources prior to initiating a pre-emergency event.  PJM will initiate an electronic 
message to Curtailment Service Providers notifying them of the pre-emergency event; 
Curtailment Service Providers are required to have the capability to retrieve this electronic 
message as described in the PJM Manuals.  Additionally, PJM will post the pre-emergency event 
information on the PJM website and issue a separate All-Call message.  
 
Following PJM’s request to reduce load, (i) participants in the Energy Only Option voluntarily 
may reduce load; and (ii) participants in the Full Program Option are required to reduce load 
unless they already have reduced load pursuant to the Economic Load Response Program.  PJM 
will dispatch the resources of all Emergency Load Response Program participants (not already 
dispatched under the Economic Load Response Program) based on the availability, location, 
minimum notification time, dispatch price and/or quantity of load reduction needed, subject to 
transmission constraints in the PJM Region.  To give PJM dispatchers the flexibility to address 
reliability concerns in the most effective and timely manner and invoke the resources that offer 
the most assurance of effective relief of emergency conditions, the dispatch of Demand Resource 
Registrations may not be based solely on the least-cost resources since such dispatch shall be 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.5 Pre-Emergency Opera 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-244-000 - Page 2 
based not only on price, but also on availability, location, minimum notification time and/or 
quantity of megawatts of load or load reduction needed. 
 
The dispatch price of Full Program Option registrations and Energy Only Option registrations in 
the Pre-Emergency Load Response Program are eligible to set the real time Locational Marginal 
Prices (“LMP”) when the Office of the Interconnection has implemented pre-emergency 
procedures and such registrations are required to reduce demand in the PJM Region and as 
described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix.  Energy Only Option registrations must also satisfy PJM’s telemetry 
requirements. 
 
Curtailment Service Providers with Demand Resource Registrations in the Emergency Load 
Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Programs must provide real-time operational data 
regarding the availability and status of their resources to PJM, and comply with operational 
procedures, as described in detail in the PJM Manuals. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.6 Emergency Operation 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-244-000 - Page 1 
8.6 Emergency Operations 
 
PJM will initiate the notification of a Load Management Event coincident with the declaration of 
Maximum Generation emergency. (Implementation of the Emergency Load Response Program 
can be used for regional emergencies.) The minimum duration of a load reduction request is one 
hour.  A Load Management Event is implemented whenever economic generating capacity is not 
adequate to serve load and maintain reserves or maintain system reliability.  PJM will initiate an 
electronic message to Curtailment Service Providers notifying them of the Load Management 
Event; Curtailment Service Providers are required to have the capability to retrieve this 
electronic message as described in the PJM Manuals.  Additionally, PJM will post the Load 
Management Event information on the PJM website and issue a separate All-Call message.  
 
Following PJM’s request to reduce load, (i) participants in the Energy Only Option voluntarily 
may reduce load; and (ii) participants in the Full Program Option are required to reduce load 
unless they already have reduced load pursuant to the Economic Load Response Program.  PJM 
will dispatch the resources of all Emergency Load Response Program participants (not already 
dispatched under the Economic Load Response Program) based on the availability, location, 
minimum notification time, dispatch price and/or quantity of load reduction needed, subject to 
transmission constraints in the PJM Region.  To give PJM dispatchers the flexibility to address 
reliability concerns in the most effective and timely manner and invoke the resources that offer 
the most assurance of effective relief of emergency conditions, the dispatch of Demand Resource 
Registrations may not be based solely on the least-cost resources since such dispatch shall be 
based not only on price, but also on availability, location, minimum notification time and/or 
quantity of megawatts of load or load reduction needed.  
 
The dispatch price of Full Program Option registrations and Energy Only Option registrations in 
the Emergency Load Response Program are eligible to set the real time LMP when the Office of 
the Interconnection has implemented Emergency procedures and such registrations are required 
to reduce demand in the PJM Region and as described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 2 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix. Energy Only Option 
registrations must also satisfy PJM’s telemetry requirements. 
 
Curtailment Service Providers with Demand Resource Registrations in the Emergency Load 
Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Programs must provide real-time operational data 
regarding the availability and status of their resources to PJM, as described in detail in the PJM 
Manuals.  Operational procedures are described in detail in the PJM Manual for Emergency 
Operations. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.7 – Verification 
Effective Date: 6/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 1 
8.7 Verification 
 
PJM requires that the load reduction meter data be submitted to PJM within 60 days of the Load 
Management Event. If the data are not received within 60 days, no payment for participation 
shall be provided. Meter data must be provided for all hours during the day of the Load 
Management Event or the Load Management performance test, and for all hours during any 
other days as required by the Office of the Interconnection to calculate the load reduction.   
 
These data files are to be communicated to PJM either via the Load Response Program web site 
or email. Files that are emailed must be in the PJM-approved file format. Meter data will be 
forwarded to the electric distribution company upon receipt, and these parties will then have ten 
(10) Business Days to provide feedback to PJM.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.8 Market Settlements 
Effective Date: 6/16/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1590-000 - Page 1 
8.8 Market Settlements 
 
Payment for reducing load is based on the actual kWh relief provided plus the adjustment for 
losses, subject to the Reporting and Compliance provisions below. The magnitude of capacity 
relief provided by Full Program Option participants shall be the amount determined in 
accordance with the Reporting and Compliance provisions below. The magnitude of relief 
provided by Energy Only Option participants, and the magnitude of energy relief provided by 
Full Program Option participants, may be less than, equal to, or greater than the kW amount 
declared on the Emergency or Pre-Emergency registration.  Compensation will be provided for 
reductions in energy consumption during emergency events, tests and associated retest(s), where 
applicable by Full Program Option participants and Energy Only Option participants regardless 
of whether the participant’s load during the event exceeds its peak load contribution for the 
applicable Delivery Year.   
 
PJMSettlement pays the applicable LMP to the PJM Member that nominates the load. Payment 
will be equal to the measured energy load reduction adjusted for losses times the applicable 
LMP.  The measured energy load reduction for locations with approved Economic Load 
Response registrations prior to a Load Management Event that have an economic CBL different 
than the maximum base load as defined in the PJM Manuals will use the associated economic 
CBL to determine the energy load reduction unless the locations on the Emergency Load 
Response registration are not the same locations as those included on the Economic Load 
Response registration.  If, at the time that a Load Management Event or emergency event is 
initiated by PJM, an end-use customer is already responding economically (i.e., pursuant to the 
Economic Load Response rules) and economic CBL is based on Symmetric Additive 
Adjustment, then the CBL calculated based on the Symmetric Additive Adjustment period prior 
to the economic event will be used.  Locations that do not have an approved Economic Load 
Response registration prior to a Load Management Event will use the Customer Baseline Load as 
defined in section 3.3A.2 and associated Symmetric Additive Adjustment as defined in section 
3.3A.2.01 of this schedule unless an alternative CBL is approved pursuant to section 3.3A.2.01 
of this schedule as the CBL to determine the energy load reduction. 
 
If, however, the sum of the hourly energy payments to a Curtailment Service Provider with a 
Demand Resource Registration dispatched by PJM for actual, achieved reductions for an 
emergency event is not greater than or equal to the offer value (i.e. Minimum Dispatch Price and 
shut down costs) then the Curtailment Service Provider will be made whole up to the offer value 
for its actual, achieved reductions for the Demand Resource Registration. 
 
Locations on Economic Load Response registrations dispatched in the Real-time Energy Market 
or cleared in the Day-ahead Energy Market that are also included on an Emergency Load 
Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response registration as Full Program Option, and that have 
also been dispatched as part of an emergency event for the same hour (i.e., have an “overlapping 
dispatch hour”) will be compensated for energy based on emergency energy settlement and cost 
allocation rules as set forth in this section and in the PJM Manuals.  Overlapping dispatch hours 
will use shutdown costs based on what was considered for the economic event, and no balancing 
Operating Reserve charges will be assessed for deviations from real-time dispatch amounts or 
from cleared day-ahead commitments.  To avoid duplicative energy payments, overlapping 
dispatch hours for an aggregate registration (i.e., multiple locations on the same registration) or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.8 Market Settlements 
Effective Date: 6/16/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1590-000 - Page 2 
dispatch groups where locations on the Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load 
Response registration are not the same locations as those on the Economic Load Response 
registration will have hourly economic energy load reduction and/or hourly emergency energy 
load reduction prorated based on load reduction capability provided by the Curtailment Service 
Provider for the locations. 
 
The Curtailment Service Provider will only submit energy settlements for Load Management 
Events that occur outside of the specific availability period defined in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement for each Demand Resource type if the Curtailment Service Provider has confirmed 
that the customers on the registration did take action to reduce load or the registration reflects the 
entire group of mass market customers for which an energy settlement will either be submitted 
for all or none of the mass market customers, as approved by PJM.  The Curtailment Service 
Provider will only submit energy settlements for tests and for each registration for Load 
Management Events that occur during the product specific availability period as defined for each 
product in the Reliability Assurance Agreement if the Curtailment Service Provider also provides 
associated load data for each registration in order to calculate that registration’s capacity 
compliance. 
 
Full Program Option participants that fail to provide a load reduction (as measured as set forth in 
the Reporting and Compliance provisions below) when dispatched by PJM shall be assessed 
penalties and/or charges as specified in Tariff, Attachment DD and the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement, as applicable. 
 
During emergency conditions, costs for emergency purchases in excess of LMP are allocated 
among PJM Market Buyers in proportion to their increase in net purchases minus real-time 
dispatch reduction megawatts from the PJM energy market during the hour in the Real-time 
Energy Market compared to the Day-ahead Energy Market. Consistent with this pricing 
methodology, all charges under the Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load 
Response Program are allocated to purchasers of energy, in proportion to their increase in net 
purchases minus real-time dispatch reduction megawatts from the PJM energy market during the 
hour from day-ahead to real-time. 
 
The cost of payments for Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response energy 
settlements for tests, shall be recovered from Market Participants on a ratio-share basis based on 
their real-time exports from the PJM Region and from Load Serving Entities on ratio-share basis 
based on their real-time loads in each Zone for that month where the tests were conducted, with 
the ratio shares determined as follows: 
 
The ratio share for LSE i in zone z shall be RTLiz/(RTL + X) 
and the ratio share for party j shall be Xj/(RTL + X). 
Where: 
 
RTL is the total real time load in all zones where Load Management was tested; 
RTLiz is the real-time load for LSE i in zone z; 
X is the total export quantity from PJM in that hour; and 
Xj is the export quantity by party j from PJM. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.8 Market Settlements 
Effective Date: 6/16/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1590-000 - Page 3 
 
Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program charges and credits will 
appear on the PJM Members monthly bill, as described in the PJM Manual for Operating 
Agreement Accounting and the PJM Manual for Billing. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.9 Reporting and Compl 
Effective Date: 6/16/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1590-000 - Page 1 
8.9 Reporting and Compliance 
 
Actual load reductions of Energy Only Option emergency registrations will be added back for 
the purpose of peak load calculations for capacity for the following Delivery Year. 
 
Actual Emergency Load Response, Pre-Emergency Load Response and Economic Load 
Response load reductions for Demand Resource Registrations in the Emergency Load Response 
or Pre-Emergency Load Response Full Program Option or Capacity Only Option which occur  
during a registration’s product-type required availability window as set forth in PJM Reliability 
Assurance Agreement, Tariff and Manuals or which occur outside the availability window if 
such registration received Bonus Performance for Performance Assessment Interval(s) or 
responded  to economic event will be added back for the purpose of calculating peak load for 
capacity for the following Delivery Year, as set forth in the PJM Manuals and consistent with the 
load response recognized for capacity compliance as set forth in the Reporting and Compliance 
provisions below.  Capacity Only Option registrations are Full Program Option registrations that 
do not receive an energy payment for load reductions during a pre-emergency or emergency 
event.  
 
Actual load reductions of Demand Resource Registrations in Emergency Load Response or Pre-
Emergency Load Response Full Program Option or Capacity Only Option used to determine 
Load Management Event and test capacity compliance for Firm Service Level and Guaranteed 
Load Drop end-use customers shall be equal to the load reduction provided to the electric 
distribution company as follows and in accordance with the PJM Manuals:  
 
i) Guaranteed Load Drop compliance will be based on:  
 
a.  the lesser of (a) comparison load used to best represent what the load would have been 
if PJM did not declare a Load Management Event or there was not a test as 
outlined in the PJM Manuals, minus the Load and then multiplied by the LF, or 
(b) For a summer event, the PLC minus the Load multiplied by the LF.  A 
summer load reduction will only be recognized for capacity compliance if the 
Load multiplied by the LF is less than the PLC.  For a non-summer event, the 
WPL multiplied the ZWWAF multiplied by LF,  minus the Load multiplied by 
the LF. A non-summer load reduction will only be recognized for capacity 
compliance if the Load multiplied by the LF is less than the WPL multiplied by 
the ZWWAF multiplied by LF. Calculations are represented by: 
 
Summer: Minimum of {(comparison load – Load) * LF, PLC – (Load * LF)} 
 
Non-summer: Minimum of {(comparison load – Load) * LF, 
(WPL*ZWWAF*LF)-(Load*LF)} 
 
b.  Curtailment Service Providers must submit actual loads and comparison loads for all 
hours during the day of the Load Management Event or the Load Management 
performance test, and for all hours during any other days as required by the Office 
of the Interconnection to calculate the load reduction.  Comparison loads must be 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.9 Reporting and Compl 
Effective Date: 6/16/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1590-000 - Page 2 
developed from the guidelines in the PJM Manuals, and note which method was 
employed. 
 
c.  Methodologies for establishing comparison load for Guaranteed Load Drop end-use 
customers include the following: 
 
♦ Comparable Day 
♦ Same Day 
♦ Customer Baseline 
♦ Regression Analysis  
♦ Generation 
 
Methodologies for establishing comparison load for Guaranteed Load Drop end-
use customers are described in greater detail in Manual M-19, PJM Manual for 
Load Forecasting and Analysis, at Attachment A: Load Drop Estimate Guidelines. 
 
 
 
 
ii) Compliance for FSL will be based on: 
 
Summer (June through October and the following May of a Delivery Year) - End 
use customer’s current Delivery Year peak load contribution (“PLC”) minus the 
metered load (“Load”) multiplied by the loss factor (“LF”). The calculation is 
represented by: 
 
(PLC) - (Load *LF) 
 
Winter (November through April of a Delivery Year)– End use customer’s Winter 
Peak Load (“WPL”) multiplied by Zonal Winter Weather Adjustment Factor 
(“ZWWAF”) multiplied by LF, minus the metered load (“Load”) multiplied by 
the LF.  The calculation is represented by: 
 
(WPL * ZWWAF * LF) – (Load * LF) 
 
The capacity compliance of Demand Resource Registrations in the Emergency Load Response 
and Pre-Emergency Load Response Full Program Option, as determined in accordance with 
these Reporting and Compliance provisions, shall not affect energy payments to such resources 
for load reductions during an emergency event, as provided in the Market Settlements provisions 
above and Tariff, Attachment DD. 
 
PJM will submit any required reports to FERC on behalf of the Emergency Load Response and 
Pre-Emergency Load Response Program participants. PJM will also post this document, as well 
as any other program-related documentation on the PJM website. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.9 Reporting and Compl 
Effective Date: 6/16/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1590-000 - Page 3 
PJM will post on its website a report of demand response activity, and will provide a summary 
thereof to the PJM Markets and Reliability Committee on an annual basis. 
 
As PJM receives evidence from the electric distribution companies pursuant to section 1.5A.3 of 
PJM’s Economic Load Response Program, PJM will post on its website a list of those Relevant 
Electric Retail Regulatory Authorities that the electric distribution companies assert prohibit or 
condition retail participation in PJM’s Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load 
Response Program together with a corresponding reference to the Relevant Electric Retail 
Regulatory Authority evidence that is provided to PJM by the electric distribution companies. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.10 – Non-Hourly Metered 
Effective Date: 8/3/2015 - Docket #: ER15-1849-000 - Page 1 
8.10 Non-Hourly Metered Customer Pilot 
 
Non-hourly metered customers may participate in the Emergency Load Response Program on a 
pilot basis under the following circumstances.  The Curtailment Service Provider must propose 
an alternate method for measuring hourly demand reductions.  The Office of the Interconnection 
shall approve alternate measurement mechanisms on a case-by-case basis for a time period 
specified by the Office of the Interconnection (“Pilot Period”).  . 
 
Demand reductions by non-hourly metered customers using alternate measurement mechanisms 
on a pilot basis shall be limited to a combined total of 500 MW of reductions in both the 
Emergency Load Response Program and the PJM Interchange Energy Market.  With the sole 
exception of the requirement for hourly metering, non-hourly metered customers shall be subject 
to the rules and procedures for participation in the Emergency Load Response Program.  
Following completion of a Pilot Period, the alternate method shall be evaluated by the Office of 
the Interconnection to determine whether such alternate method should be included in the PJM 
Manuals as an accepted measurement mechanism for demand reductions in the Emergency Load 
Response Program. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 8 -  EMERGENCY 
AND PRE-EM --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Section 8.11 – Emergency Load Res 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 1 
8.11 Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Participant 
Aggregation. 
 
The purpose for aggregation is to allow the participation of end-use customers in the Emergency 
Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Programs that can provide less than 100 kW 
of demand response on an individual basis.  Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency 
Load Response Participant aggregations shall be subject to the following requirements: 
 
 i. All end-use customers in an aggregation shall be specifically identified; 
 
 ii. All end-use customers in an aggregation shall be served by the same electric 
distribution company ; 
 
 iii. All end-use customers in an aggregation that settle at Transmission Zone, existing 
load aggregate,  or node prices shall be located in the same Transmission Zone, existing load 
aggregate or at the same node, respectively; 
 
 iv. Energy settlement will be based on each individual customer’s load reductions, or 
a current statistical sample of end-use customers’ load reductions for non-interval metered 
residential Direct Load Control customers as set forth in the PJM Manuals, pursuant to section 
3.3A of Schedule 1 of this Agreement, the PJM Reliability Assurance Agreement Among Load 
Serving Entities in the PJM Region and the PJM Manuals.  Capacity compliance will be based 
on each individual customers’ load reductions, or a current statisitical sample of end-use 
customers’ load reductions, and then aggregated pursuant to section 3.3A of Schedule 1 of this 
Agreement, the PJM Reliability Assurance Agreement Among Load Serving Entities in the PJM 
Region and the PJM Manuals; and 
 
 v. Each end-use customer site must meet the requirements for market participation 
by a Demand Resource. 
 
  
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT L List of Transmission Owners 
Effective Date: 7/10/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1995-000 - Page 1 
