[ATTACHMENT GG - Part 8 of 8]

Effective Date: 11/17/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-002 - Page 4 
Surplus Interconnection Service.  In the event that the Transmission Provider is unable to 
complete the Surplus Interconnection Study within the timeframe prescribed in Tariff, 
Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.4.1, the Transmission Provider shall notify the Surplus 
Interconnection Customer and explain the reasons for the delay. 
 
5. The Surplus Interconnection Study conducted hereunder will provide only a sensitivity 
analysis based on the data specified by the Surplus Interconnection Customer in its 
Surplus Interconnection Request.  The Surplus Interconnection Study necessarily will 
employ various assumptions regarding the Surplus Interconnection Request, other 
pending New Service Requests and PJM’s Regional Transmission Expansion Plan at the 
time of the study.  The Surplus Interconnection Study will not obligate the Transmission 
Provider or the Transmission Owner(s) to interconnect with the Surplus Interconnection 
Customer or construct any facilities or upgrades. 
 
CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
6. The Interconnection Customer agrees to provide all information requested by the 
Transmission Provider necessary to complete the Surplus Interconnection Study.  Subject 
to Paragraph 7 of this Agreement and to the extent required by Tariff, Part VI, Subpart B, 
section 222, information provided pursuant to this Paragraph 6 shall be and remain 
confidential. 
 
7. Until completion of the Surplus Interconnection Study, the Transmission Provider shall 
keep confidential all information provided to it by the Surplus Interconnection Customer.  
Upon completion of the Surplus Interconnection Study and, to the extent required by 
Commission regulations, will be made publicly available upon request, except that the 
identity of the Surplus Interconnection Customer shall remain confidential. 
 
8. Surplus Interconnection Customer acknowledges that, consistent with the Tariff, the 
Transmission Provider may contract with consultants, including the Transmission 
Owners, to provide services or expertise in the Surplus Interconnection Study process and 
that the Transmission Provider may disseminate information to the Transmission Owners. 
 
COST RESPONSIBILITY 
 
9. The Surplus Interconnection Customer shall reimburse the Transmission Provider for the 
actual cost of the Surplus Interconnection Study.  The deposit paid by the Surplus 
Interconnection Customer described in Paragraph 2 of this Agreement shall be applied 
toward the Surplus Interconnection Customer’s Surplus Interconnection Study cost 
responsibility.  The Surplus Interconnection Customer shall be responsible for and must 
pay all actual study costs.  If at any time the Transmission Provider notifies the Surplus 
Interconnection Customer of estimated additional study costs, the Surplus 
Interconnection Customer must pay such estimated additional study costs within ten (10) 
Business Days of Transmission Provider sending the Surplus Interconnection Customer 
notification of such estimated additional study costs.  If the Surplus Interconnection 
Customer fails to pay such estimated additional study costs within ten (10) Business Days 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT RR-FORM OF SURPLUS INTERCONNECTION STUDY 
Effective Date: 11/17/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-002 - Page 5 
of Transmission Provider sending the Surplus Interconnection Customer notification of 
such estimated additional study costs, then the Surplus Interconnection Request shall be 
deemed to be terminated and withdrawn. 
 
DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY, LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 
 
10. In analyzing and preparing the Surplus Interconnection Study, the Transmission Provider, 
the Transmission Owner(s), and any other subcontractors employed by the Transmission 
Provider shall have to rely on information provided by the Surplus Interconnection 
Customer and possibly by third parties, including the owner of the existing Generating 
Facility, and may not have control over the accuracy of such information.  Accordingly, 
NEITHER THE TRANSMISSION PROVIDER, THE TRANSMISSION OWNER(S), 
NOR ANY OTHER SUBCONTRACTORS EMPLOYED BY THE TRANSMISSION 
PROVIDER MAKES ANY WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WHETHER 
ARISING BY OPERATION OF LAW, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE OR DEALING, 
CUSTOM, USAGE IN THE TRADE OR PROFESSION, OR OTHERWISE, 
INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE WITH 
REGARD TO THE ACCURACY, CONTENT, OR CONCLUSIONS OF THE 
SURPLUS INTERCONNECTION STUDY.  The Surplus Interconnection Customer 
acknowledges that it has not relied on any representations or warranties not specifically 
set forth herein and that no such representations or warranties have formed the basis of its 
bargain hereunder.  Neither this Agreement nor the Surplus Interconnection Study 
prepared hereunder is intended, nor shall either be interpreted, to constitute agreement by 
the Transmission Provider or the Transmission Owner(s) to provide any transmission or 
interconnection service to or on behalf of the Surplus Interconnection Customer either at 
this point in time or in the future. 
 
11. In no event will the Transmission Provider, Transmission Owner(s) or other 
subcontractors employed by the Transmission Provider be liable for indirect, special, 
incidental, punitive, or consequential damages of any kind including loss of profits, 
whether under this Agreement or otherwise, even if the Transmission Provider, 
Transmission Owner(s), or other subcontractors employed by the Transmission Provider 
have been advised of the possibility of such a loss.  Nor shall the Transmission Provider, 
Transmission Owner(s), or other subcontractors employed by the Transmission Provider 
be liable for any delay in delivery or of the non-performance or delay in performance of 
the Transmission Provider's obligations under this Surplus Interconnection Study 
Agreement. 
 
Without limitation of the foregoing, the Surplus Interconnection Customer further agrees 
that Transmission Owner(s) and other subcontractors employed by the Transmission 
Provider to prepare or assist in the preparation of any Surplus Interconnection Study shall 
be deemed third party beneficiaries of this provision entitled "Disclaimer of Warranty, 
Limitation of Liability." 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT RR-FORM OF SURPLUS INTERCONNECTION STUDY 
Effective Date: 11/17/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-002 - Page 6 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
12. Any notice or request made to or by any Party regarding this Agreement shall be made to 
the representative of the other Party as indicated below. 
 
Transmission Provider 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
2750 Monroe Blvd. 
Audubon, PA 19403 
 
Surplus Interconnection Customer 
___________________________________ 
___________________________________ 
___________________________________ 
 
13. No waiver by either Party of one or more defaults by the other in performance of any of 
the provisions of this Agreement shall operate or be construed as a waiver of any other or 
further default or defaults, whether of a like or different character. 
 
14. This Agreement or any part thereof, may not be amended, modified, or waived other than 
by a writing signed by all Parties hereto. 
 
15. This Agreement shall be binding upon the Parties hereto, their heirs, executors, 
administrators, successors, and assigns. 
 
16. Neither this Agreement nor the Surplus Interconnection Study performed hereunder shall 
be construed as an application for service under Tariff, Part II or Tariff, Part III. 
 
17. The provisions of Tariff, Part IV that relate to Surplus Interconnection Service are 
incorporated herein and made a part hereof. 
 
18. Governing Law, Regulatory Authority, and Rules  
 
 The validity, interpretation and enforcement of this Agreement and each of its provisions 
shall be governed by the laws of the state of __________________ (the state where the 
Point of Interconnection is located), without regard to its conflicts of law principles.  This 
Agreement is subject to all Applicable Laws and Regulations.  Each Party expressly 
reserves the right to seek changes in, appeal, or otherwise contest any laws, orders, or 
regulations of a Governmental Authority. 
 
19. No Third-Party Beneficiaries 
 
 Except as stated in Paragraph 11 of this Agreement, this Agreement is not intended to and 
does not create rights, remedies, or benefits of any character whatsoever in favor of any 
persons, corporations, associations, or entities other than the Parties, and the obligations 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT RR-FORM OF SURPLUS INTERCONNECTION STUDY 
Effective Date: 11/17/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-002 - Page 7 
herein assumed are solely for the use and benefit of the Parties, their successors in 
interest and where permitted, their assigns. 
 
20. Multiple Counterparts 
 
 This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which is deemed 
an original but all of which constitute one and the same instrument. 
 
21. No Partnership 
 
This Agreement shall not be interpreted or construed to create an association, joint 
venture, agency relationship, or partnership between the Parties or to impose any 
partnership obligation or partnership liability upon either Party.  Neither Party shall have 
any right, power or authority to enter into any agreement or undertaking for, or act on 
behalf of, or to act as or be an agent or representative of, or to otherwise bind, the other 
Party. 
 
22. Severability 
 
If any provision or portion of this Agreement shall for any reason be held or adjudged to 
be invalid or illegal or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction or other 
Governmental Authority, (1) such portion or provision shall be deemed separate and 
independent, (2) the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to restore insofar as practicable 
the benefits to each Party that were affected by such ruling, and (3) the remainder of this 
Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. 
 
23. Reservation of Rights  
 
The Transmission Provider shall have the right to make a unilateral filing with the 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) to modify this Agreement with 
respect to any rates, terms and conditions, charges, classifications of service, rule or 
regulation under section 205 or any other applicable provision of the Federal Power Act 
and FERC’s rules and regulations thereunder, and the Interconnection Customer shall 
have the right to make a unilateral filing with FERC to modify this Agreement under any 
applicable provision of the Federal Power Act and FERC’s rules and regulations; 
provided that each Party shall have the right to protest any such filing by the other Party 
and to participate fully in any proceeding before FERC in which such modifications may 
be considered.  Nothing in this Agreement shall limit the rights of the Parties or of FERC 
under sections 205 or 206 of the Federal Power Act and FERC’s rules and regulations, 
except to the extent that the Parties otherwise agree as provided herein. 
 
CERTIFICATION 
 
By initialing the line next to each of the following required elements, Surplus 
Interconnection Customer hereby certifies that it has submitted with this executed 
Agreement each of the required elements (if this Surplus Interconnection Request is being 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT RR-FORM OF SURPLUS INTERCONNECTION STUDY 
Effective Date: 11/17/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-002 - Page 8 
submitted electronically, each of the required elements must be submitted electronically as 
individual PDF files, together with an electronic PDF copy of this signed Agreement): 
 
___________ Specification of the location of the proposed surplus generating unit 
site or existing surplus generating unit (including both a written 
description (e.g., street address, global positioning coordinates) and 
attach a map in PDF format depicting the property boundaries and 
the location of the surplus generating unit site)  
 
__________ If the Surplus Interconnection Customer is an unaffiliated third 
party, the information and evidence set forth in Paragraph 3(a)(i) – 
(iii) of this Agreement 
 
Evidence of an ownership interest in, or right to acquire or control the 
surplus generating unit site 
 
__________ The megawatt size of the proposed surplus generating unit or the 
amount of increase in megawatt capability of an existing surplus 
generating unit 
 
__________ Identification of the fuel type of the proposed surplus generating unit 
 
__________ Description of the equipment configuration and a set of preliminary 
electrical design specifications, and, if the surplus generating unit is a 
wind generation facility, then the set of preliminary electrical design 
specifications must depict the wind plant as a single equivalent 
generator 
 
__________ The planned date that the proposed surplus generating unit (or 
increase in megawatt capability of an existing surplus generating unit) 
will be in service 
 
__________ All additional information prescribed by the Transmission Provider 
in the PJM Manuals 
 
__________ The full amount of the required deposit 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT RR-FORM OF SURPLUS INTERCONNECTION STUDY 
Effective Date: 11/17/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-002 - Page 9 
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Transmission Provider and the Surplus Interconnection 
Customer have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective authorized officials. 
 
Transmission Provider:  PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
 
By:                
       Name       Title       Date 
 
      _____________________________         
Printed Name 
 
Surplus Interconnection Customer:  [Name of Party] 
 
By:                
       Name        Title       Date 
 
      _____________________________         
 Printed Name 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Energy Storage Association ) Docket No. EL17-64-000 
Complainant. ) 
v. ) 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. ) 
 Respondent. ) 
           ) 
    ) 
                ) 
Renewable Energy Systems Americas ) Docket No. EL17-65-000  
and Invenergy Storage Development ) 
LLC ) 
Complainants ) 
v. ) (Not Consolidated)  
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. ) 
Respondent ) 
 
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT AND OFFER OF SETTLEMENT 
This Settlement Agreement and Offer of Settlement (“Settlement”) is made 
pursuant to Rule 602 of the Rules of Practice and Procedures of the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“Commission”), 18 C.F.R. § 385.602, by and among PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”), together with The AES Corporation (“AES”); Duke 
Energy Corporation; EDF Renewables, Inc.; Invenergy LLC (“Invenergy”); NextEra 
Energy, Inc.; Renewable Energy Systems Americas, Inc. (“RES”); Convergent Energy 
and Power LP, Convergent Energy and Power GP LLC, and Hazle Spindle, LLC; 
GlidePath Power Solutions LLC; GlidePath Power LLC (together with GlidePath Power 
Solutions LLC, “GlidePath”); and Energy Storage Association (“ESA”). 1  These parties 
 
1  Subsidiaries of AES, Duke, EDF, Invenergy, NextEra, RES, or GlidePath listed as 
“Immediate Affected Battery Owners” in Table 2.2 of the Settlement also join the 
Settlement as Settling Parties and signatories to the Settlement. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 2 
enter into this Settlement to resolve all outstanding issues in Docket Nos. EL17-64-000 
and EL17-65-000 (collectively, the “Regulation Complaints”).   
ARTICLE I 
BACKGROUND 
On April 13, 2017, ESA filed a Complaint against PJM under sections 205 and 
206 of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) 2 in Docket No. EL17-64-000 (“ESA 
Complaint”).3  The ESA Complaint alleged that PJM had unilaterally implemented a 
series of changes to its Regulation market that were arbitrary, capricious, and unduly 
discriminatory to ESA’s members who participate in the Regulation market.  ESA 
requested that the Commission: (i) direct PJM to file for review under section 205 of the 
FPA revisions to its Open Access Transmission Tariff (“Tariff”) that set forth the 
methodology by which PJM calculates the benefits factor used in clearing resources in 
the Regulation market and justify the reasonableness of its benefits factor calculations; 
(ii) direct PJM to eliminate the Regulation procurement cap set forth in the PJM business 
practice manuals; and (iii) direct PJM to file for review under Section 205 of the FPA 
revisions to its Tariff that set forth the parameters governing the design of its long-
established Regulation D frequency Regulation signal (“Regulation D Signal”), and to 
revert to its prior Regulation D Signal until such time as it receives Commission approval 
for any changes. 
On April 14, 2017, RES and Invenergy (“RES/Invenergy”) filed a Complaint 
against PJM under FPA sections 205 and 206 in Docket No. EL17-65-000 
 
2  16 U.S.C. §§ 824d, 824e 
3  Complaint of Energy Storage Association, Docket No. EL17-64-000 (Apr. 13, 
2017).   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 3 
(“RES/Invenergy Complaint”). 4  The RES/Invenergy Complaint alleged that PJM had 
made unilateral, unreasonable and unduly discriminatory changes to its Regulation D 
Signal, which adversely affected the complainants’ storage facilities.  The RES/Invenergy 
Complaint requested that the Commission (i) find that PJM’s decision to modify its 
Regulation D Signal was unjust and unreasonable, resulting in discriminatory treatment 
of the complainants and adverse impacts on their projects; and (ii) direct that PJM revert 
to using the original Regulation D Signal and codify any new procedures for treatment of 
fast response supply in the Tariff. 
PJM filed an Answer and Motion to Consolidate the Regulation Complaints on 
May 15, 2017.  A number of parties intervened and filed comments on the Regulation 
Complaints on May 15, 2017.  The Independent Market Monitor for PJM (“IMM”) filed 
Comments on the Regulation Complaints on May 25, 2017.  RES/Invenergy filed an 
Answer to PJM’s Answer and Motion to Consolidate and other filed comments on May 
31, 2017 in Docket No. EL17-65-000.  ESA filed an Answer to PJM’s Answer and 
Motion to Consolidate and other filed comments on June 2, 2017 in Docket No. EL17-
64-000.  The IMM filed an Answer to the Answers of ESA and RES/Invenergy on June 
12, 2017.  PJM filed an Answer to the Answers of ESA and RES/Invenergy on June 27, 
2017.   
On July 25, 2017, ESA filed a Motion Requesting Appointment of Settlement 
Judge in Docket No. EL17-64-000.  RES/Invenergy filed a similar Motion in Docket No. 
EL17-65-000.  PJM filed Comments on the Motions on August 9, 2017.  RES/Invenergy 
filed a response to PJM’s Comments on August 21, 2017.  AES filed Comments in 
 
4  Complaint of Renewable Energy Systems Americas and Invenergy Storage 
Development LLC, Docket No. EL17-65-000 (Apr. 14, 2017).    

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 4 
response to PJM’s Answer and in Support of the Motions filed by ESA and 
RES/Invenergy on August 30, 2017. 
On March 30, 2018, the Commission issued its Order on Complaints and 
Establishing Technical Conference in Docket Nos. EL17-64-000 and EL17-65-000 
(“March 30 Order”). 5  The March 30 Order (i) granted the ESA Complaint in part; (ii) 
directed Commission staff to convene a technical conference to explore issues related to 
the Regulation Complaints; and (iii) established refund effective dates for Docket Nos. 
EL17-64-000 and EL17-65-000 pursuant to FPA Section 206(b).  
On May 3, 2018, the Commission issued a Notice of Technical Conference in 
Docket Nos. EL17-64-000, EL17-65-000, ER18-87-000, and ER18-87-001.  On May 18, 
2018, PJM, ESA, and RES/Invenergy filed a joint request for the appointment of a 
settlement judge and to postpone scheduling the Technical Conference and the collection 
of related information until conclusion of settlement judge proceedings.  AES filed 
comments in support of the joint request while the IMM filed comments in opposition, on 
May 24, 2018. 
On May 30, 2018, the Commission issued its Order Establishing Settlement 
Procedures and Postponing Technical Conference Docket Nos. EL17-64-000, EL17-65-
000, ER18-87-000, and ER18-87-001 (“May 30 Order”). 6  The May 30 Order directed 
the Chief Judge to appoint a settlement judge in Docket Nos. EL17-64-000 and EL17-65-
000.  The May 30 Order further held the technical conference in abeyance until further 
 
5  Energy Storage Ass’n v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 162 FERC ¶ 61,296 
(2018).   
6  Energy Storage Ass’n v. PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 163 FERC ¶ 61,157 
(2018). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 5 
order.  On June 6, 2018, the Commission issued an Order of the Chief Judge designating 
Judge Lawrence Brenner to preside over settlement procedures.  Following Judge 
Brenner’s retirement in September 2018, the Commission issued an Order of the Chief 
Judge Making Substitute Designation of Settlement Judge designating Judge Suzanne 
Krolikowski to preside over settlement procedures on October 1, 2018.    
Settling Parties and intervenors including the IMM, Dominion Energy Services, 
Inc., and American Municipal Power, Inc. participated in settlement conferences 
throughout June, July, and August of 2018.  Settling Parties also engaged in ongoing 
informal settlement discussions throughout the settlement negotiation period.  Settling 
Parties reached a settlement in principle in August 2018, and this Settlement 
memorializes the terms of the settlement in principle.   
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual covenants 
and agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the 
receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Settling Parties, intending 
to be legally bound, agree as follows: 
ARTICLE II 
DEFINITIONS 
2.1 Tariff Definitions: Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Settlement 
will have the meaning specified in the Tariff or the Amended and Restated Operating 
Agreement of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“Operating Agreement”). 
2.1.1 Affected Battery: An “Affected Battery” is any short-duration battery 
unit interconnected with the PJM system that: (i) was operational prior to 
January 9, 2017; (ii) is designed to converge to neutrality within fifteen 
(15) minutes; (iii) was adversely affected by the January 9, 2017 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 6 
implementation of the 30-minute conditional neutrality of PJM’s 
frequency regulation signal; and (iv) continues to actively participate in 
the PJM Regulation market as of August 27, 2018. The list of Affected 
Batteries identified and agreed-upon as of the date of this Settlement are 
set forth in Section 2.2 below, and include the identified flywheel energy 
storage frequency regulation plant.  
2.1.2 Affected Battery Owner: An “Affected Battery Owner” is any legal or 
natural person that directly or indirectly owns or controls an Affected 
Battery or is owned or controlled by a legal or natural person that directly 
or indirectly owns or controls an Affected Battery.  An Affected Battery 
Owner that directly owns or controls an Affected Battery may be referred 
to as an “Immediate Affected Battery Owner.”  The ultimate U.S.-based 
upstream owner of an Affected Battery may be referred to as an 
“Ultimate Upstream Affected Battery Owner.” 
2.1.3 Settlement Regulation Signal:  The Settlement Regulation Signal is the 
30-minute conditional neutrality regulation signal in effect as of 
October 1, 2018.  Consistent with current practice by PJM under the 
Tariff, the Settlement Regulation Signal will be subject to intensity 
changes according to system condition, but the intensity of the signal 
neutrality bias function under and parameters and design of the PJM 
Regulation Conditional Neutrality Controller will remain as it was on 
October 1, 2018, throughout the term of this Settlement.   
2.1.4 Maximum Recent Regulation Offer: An Affected Battery’s “Maximum 
Recent Regulation Offer” is its single maximum hourly-offered 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 7 
megawatts (“MW”) offered into the Regulation market over the most 
recent 100 hours prior to October 1, 2018, during which the Affected 
Battery provided Regulation service and where there was not a full or 
partial outage of the Affected Battery; PJM will work in good faith and 
expeditiously with the Immediate Affected Battery Owner of each 
Affected Battery to determine those hours during which there was a full 
or partial outage of the Immediate Affected Battery Owner’s Affected 
Battery. 
2.1.5 Original Battery Capacity: An Affected Battery’s “Original Battery 
Capacity,” as identified in the chart provided in Section 2.2 of this 
Settlement, is the original installed MW capacity of the applicable 
Affected Battery, including any restorations, as tested and certified 
pursuant to sections 4.5.1 (Regulation Qualification Test) and 4.5.2 
(Certifying Regulating Resource) of PJM Manual 12 7 on or before 
January 9, 2017. 
2.1.6 Settling Party: A “Settling Party” is any person or entity that meets one 
or more of the following criteria: (a) any signatory to this Settlement; or 
(b) an Affected Battery Owner that meets the qualifications in Section 
2.1.2 of this Settlement and that has complied with the opt-in procedures 
provided in Section 5.2.1, below.   
 
7  PJM Manual 12: Balancing Operations (Rev. 35), PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 
49-51 (May 25, 2016), https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/documents/manuals/archive/m12/m12V35-balancing-operations-08-25-
2016.ashx. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 8 
2.2 Identified Affected Batteries and Affected Battery Owners:  Table 2.2 
below sets forth a non-exhaustive list and short description of entities that will be 
considered Affected Battery Owners and facilities that will be considered Affected 
Batteries for the purposes and duration of this Settlement.  Each Immediate Affected 
Battery Owner and its Ultimate Upstream Affected Battery Owner(s) identified in 
Table 2.2 are signatories to the Settlement and agree to be bound by all the terms of 
the Settlement. All subsidiaries of named Affected Battery Owners will also be 
treated as Affected Battery Owners, consistent with the definition in Section 2.1.2, 
above. Note that Affected Batteries (and their Affected Battery Owners) not listed 
here may voluntarily participate in the Regulation market under this Settlement by 
complying with the provisions of Section 5.2.1, below.   
Table 2.2: 
Affected Batteries 
 
Immediate Affected 
Battery Owner 
Ultimate Upstream 
Affected Battery Owner 
Location of 
Identified 
Affected Battery 
Original Capacity of 
Identified Affected 
Battery 
AES ES Tait, 
LLC  
The AES Corporation Allegheny 
Power Systems 
(facility known 
as Warrior 
Run) 
10 MW 
AES Laurel 
Mountain, LLC 
The AES Corporation Allegheny 
Power Systems 
32 MW 
Duke Energy 
Beckjord 
Storage, LLC 
Duke Energy Corporation New Richmond, 
OH – Duke 
Energy Ohio 
Kentucky 
Two 2 MW batteries 
(modeled separately 
with separate 
performance scores) 
McHenry Battery 
Storage, LLC 
EDF Renewables, 
Inc. 
McHenry, IL – 
ComEd 
20 MW 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 9 
Immediate Affected 
Battery Owner 
Ultimate Upstream 
Affected Battery Owner 
Location of 
Identified 
Affected Battery 
Original Capacity of 
Identified Affected 
Battery 
Beech Ridge 
Energy Storage 
LLC 
Invenergy 
Investment 
Company LLC 
WV – Allegheny 
Power 
31.5 MW 
Grand Ridge 
Energy Storage 
LLC 
Invenergy  
Investment 
Company LLC 
Lasalle County, 
IL – ComEd 
31.5 MW 
Grand Ridge 
Energy IV LLC 
Invenergy  
Investment 
Company LLC 
Lasalle County, 
IL – ComEd 
4.5 MW 
Meyersdale 
Storage, LLC 
GlidePath Power 
Solutions LLC, 
GlidePath Power 
LLC 
Somerset 
County, PA – 
Penelec 
18 MW 
FPL Energy 
Illinois Wind, 
LLC 
NextEra Energy, 
Inc. 
Dekalb County, 
IL – ComEd 
(facility known 
as Lee DeKalb 
Battery) 
20 MW 
Green Mountain 
Storage, LLC 
NextEra Energy, 
Inc. 
Somerset 
County, PA – 
Penelec 
10.4 MW 
Energy Storage 
Holdings, LLC  
NextEra Energy, 
Inc. 
Gloucester 
County, NJ – 
PSEG 
(facility 
known as 
Mantua 
Creek) 
2 MW 
Battery Utility of 
Ohio, LLC 
Renewable Energy 
Systems Americas, 
Inc.  
Sunbury, OH – 
AEP Ohio 
4 MW 
Joliet Battery 
Storage LLC 
Renewable Energy 
Systems Americas, 
Inc.  
Joliet, IL – 
ComEd 
20 MW 
West Chicago 
Battery Storage 
LLC 
Renewable Energy 
Systems Americas, 
Inc.  
West Chicago, 
IL – ComEd 
20 MW 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 10 
Immediate Affected 
Battery Owner 
Ultimate Upstream 
Affected Battery Owner 
Location of 
Identified 
Affected Battery 
Original Capacity of 
Identified Affected 
Battery 
Hazle Spindle, 
LLC 
Convergent Energy 
and Power LP, 
Convergent Energy 
and Power GP LLC  
Hazle Township, 
PA – PPL 
20 MW 
 
ARTICLE III 
SCOPE OF SETTLEMENT 
The terms provided in this Settlement constitute full and complete resolution of 
all issues raised in Docket Nos. EL17-64-000 and EL17-65-000, including but not limited 
to disputes regarding historical signal changes, any question of whether PJM complied 
with its own Tariff in administering Affected Batteries’ participation in PJM’s Regulation 
market, and whether any Affected Battery experienced damage as a result of PJM’s 
administration of its Regulation market. The Commission’s approval of this Settlement 
resolves the above-referenced proceedings. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 11 
ARTICLE IV 
SETTLEMENT TERM 
The Settlement will become effective on the first day of the first month beginning 
at least ninety (90) days after the date of a Commission order approving the Settlement 
(“Settlement Effective Date”).  The terms and conditions governing the Affected 
Batteries’ participation in the Regulation market set forth in Sections 5.1 through 5.5.2 
will terminate forty-two (42) months after the Settlement Effective Date.  The 
remaining rights and obligations under this Settlement shall remain in full force and 
effect until such time as the obligations set forth in Section 5.6 of this Settlement have 
been fully satisfied. 
ARTICLE V 
AFFECTED BATTERY PARTICIPATION IN REGULATION MARKET 
5.1 Tariff Still In Effect:  The terms and conditions of the Tariff and Operating 
Agreement will apply to all Settling Parties, including Affected Batteries and Affected 
Battery Owners, throughout the Settlement term; provided, however, that during the 
Settlement: (i) to the extent the operative provisions in this Settlement under this 
Article V conflict with other provisions of the Tariff or Operating Agreement, 
Article V shall govern, and (ii) the terms of this Settlement will apply notwithstanding  
any revisions that may be made to sections of the Attachment K-Appendix of the 
Tariff, or section 1.11.4 of Schedule 1 of the Operating Agreement, or to provisions of 
PJM’s business practice manuals respecting participation in the Regulation market, as 
those provisions and manuals were in effect on October 1, 2018.  For the avoidance of 
doubt, Settling Parties clarify that if an Affected Battery is in a Suspension Period as 
described in Section 5.5, below, such Affected Battery will be subject for the duration 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 12 
of such suspension to all of terms and conditions of the Tariff and the Operating 
Agreement as they are then in effect and the provisos in (i) and (ii) above shall not 
apply.  Except as set forth in this Article V, the Tariff and Operating Agreement will 
continue to apply to Affected Batteries and Affected Battery Owners, including for the 
purposes of ordinary and customary market settlements for Regulation and other 
services under the Tariff, bill corrections, rebillings, and related matters.  
5.2 Participation in the PJM Regulation Market: For the duration of this 
Settlement term articulated in Article IV, Affected Batteries may participate in the PJM 
Regulation market utilizing the Settlement Regulation Signal.  During the term of the 
Settlement, each Affected Battery may offer MW into the Regulation market not to 
exceed its Original Battery Capacity, as set forth in the table in Section 2.2, above; 
provided, however, that for any Affected Battery offering MW into the Regulation 
market above its Maximum Recent Regulation Offer but less than or equal to its 
Original Battery Capacity, the total Regulation capability of the Affected Battery must 
be confirmed through a successful retest under section 4.5.4 of PJM Manual 12 
(Increasing Regulation Capability on a Resource).  8  The successful retest performance 
score determined using the Settlement Regulation Signal will not supersede the 
Baseline Performance Score as defined in Section 5.3 below.  In the absence of a 
successful retest as described above, an Affected Battery’s maximum offered MW into 
the Regulation market during the Settlement may not exceed the Affected Battery’s 
Maximum Recent Regulation Offer.  
 
8  PJM Manual 12: Balancing Operation (Rev. 38), PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 53 
(Apr. 20, 2018), https://www.pjm.com/-/media/documents/manuals/m12.ashx 
(“PJM Manual 12 Rev. 38”). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 13 
For the avoidance of doubt, Settling Parties clarify that during this Settlement, 
in the event an Affected Battery makes an offer into the Regulation market in excess of 
the Affected Battery’s Original Battery Capacity, that offer and the entire amount of 
MW offered into the Regulation market by the Affected Battery in that offer shall not 
be subject to the terms of Sections 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, and 5.5 of this Settlement, and instead 
shall be subject to the full terms, and conditions of the Tariff, Operating Agreement, 
and PJM business practice manuals then in effect.   
5.2.1 Voluntary Participation by Unlisted Affected Batteries:  An 
Affected Battery not listed as an Identified Affected Battery in Section 
2.2, above, may opt in to this Settlement in order to participate in the 
Regulation market under this Section 5.2 as set forth herein.  An 
Affected Battery Owner that is not an Identified Affected Battery 
Owner under the Settlement but that would like to have an Affected 
Battery it owns or controls participate in the Regulation market under 
this Section 5.2 must identify its battery to PJM as an Affected Battery, 
demonstrate its eligibility as an Affected Battery to the satisfaction of 
PJM, and agree to abide by the terms of this Settlement including, but 
not limited to, Section 5.6, below, before it may participate in the 
Regulation market under this section.  Additionally, an Affected 
Battery’s Ultimate Upstream Affected Battery Owner(s) must also agree 
to abide by the terms of the Settlement, including but not limited to 
Section 5.6, below, before the Affected Battery may participate in the 
Regulation market under this section.  Such opt-in by an Affected 
Battery Owner and its Ultimate Upstream Affected Battery Owner must 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 14 
be provided on the Opt-in Form attached (as Attachment A) to this 
Settlement, endorsed by PJM, and filed with the Commission as a 
notification in Docket Nos. EL17-64-000 and EL17-65-000.  Such opt-
in notice will take effect on the first day of the first month following its 
filing with the Commission.  Once effective, this opt-in notice will 
cause the Ultimate Upstream Affected Battery Owner opting in to the 
Settlement, as well as its subsidiaries, to become Settling Parties, and 
they will be subject to the rights and obligations of the Settlement for 
the remainder of the Settlement term set forth in Article IV, above. 
5.3 Evaluation. During the Settlement term, PJM shall evaluate each Affected 
Battery’s performance utilizing a resource-specific 100-hour average performance 
score under the 30-minute conditional neutrality Regulation signal (the “Baseline 
Performance Score”). The Baseline  Performance Score for each Affected Battery shall 
be calculated by PJM and consist of a rolling average actual hourly performance score 
for the last 100 hours a resource has operated as of October 1, 2018. 
5.4 Compensation. During the Settlement, assuming an Affected Battery meets the 
Baseline Performance Score criteria set forth below, PJM agrees to treat offers from the 
Affected Battery as having cleared the Regulation D market, regardless of whether such 
offers do, in fact, clear, provided such offers are made as price takers, either as self-
scheduled Regulation with a zero offer or as a zero priced Regulation offer.  Each 
Affected Battery agrees to follow PJM’s Regulation signal and provide Regulation 
service as if its offer had cleared and PJM will compensate the Affected Batteries for 
participation in the Regulation market utilizing the greater of (i) the Affected Battery’s 
current five-minute interval performance score, or (ii) the Affected Battery’s resource-

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 15 
specific rolling average actual hourly performance score for the last 100 hours a 
resource operated prior to the January 9, 2017 implementation of the 30-minute 
conditional neutrality of PJM’s frequency regulation signal (the “Historic Performance 
Score”). For the avoidance of doubt, Settling Parties clarify that nothing herein would 
prevent an Affected Battery from making a non-zero offer into the Regulation D 
market, but if such non-zero offer does not clear, the Affected Battery would not be 
compensated for that offer.  Furthermore, the Settling Parties agree that during the term 
of this Settlement Regulation Credits as defined in PJM Manual 28, section 4.2 9 as it 
was in effect on October 1, 2018, shall be utilized to determine compensation for each 
Affected Battery.  Further, the calculation of the Performance Score as defined in 
Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2.2(k) and PJM Manual 12, section 4.5.6; 10 
and the Mileage Ratio as defined in PJM Manual 11, section 3.2.7 11 shall be performed 
in accordance with the Tariff as it was in effect on October 1, 2018.   
5.4.1 In the event PJM transitions to a single Regulation signal as described in 
Section 5.6, below, during the Settlement, PJM will compensate each 
Affected Battery participating in the Regulation market under the 
Settlement and not in a Suspension Period under Section 5.5, below, for 
participation in the Regulation market utilizing the greater of the current 
 
9  PJM Manual 28: Operating Agreement Accounting (Rev. 80), PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., 28-31 (June 1, 2018), https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/documents/manuals/archive/m28/m28v80-operating-agreement-
accounting-06-01-2018.ashx.  
10  PJM Manual 12 Rev. 38 at 54-56. 
11  PJM Manual 11: Energy & Ancillary Service Market Operations (Rev.97), PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., 62-70 (July 26, 2018), https://www.pjm.com/-
/media/documents/manuals/archive/m11/m11v97-energy-and-ancillary-services-
market-operations-07-26-2018.ashx (“PJM Manual 11 Rev. 97”). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 16 
five-minute interval performance score or Historic Performance Score 
multiplied by the five (5) minute Regulation Market Clearing Price 
(“RMCP”) and a mileage ratio derived from the greater of the following:  
(i) the average of the mileage ratios for the last twelve (12) months prior 
to the mileage ratio becoming incalculable due to PJM’s transition to a 
single Regulation signal; or (ii) a mileage ratio of 6.576, the average of 
the monthly mileage ratios from October 2017 to September 2018 (the 
resulting mileage ratio being referred to as the “Historic Mileage 
Ratio”). 
5.4.2 In the event that the Regulation Market Performance Clearing Price 
(“RMPCP”), as defined by PJM Manual 11 as it was in effect on 
October 1, 2018, 12 is no longer available for an Affected Battery, the 
RMPCP used to determine the Regulation Credits for the said Affected 
Battery shall be determined using the greater of (i) the average of the 
RMPCP for the last twelve (12) months prior to the RMPCP becoming 
unavailable, and (ii) a RMPCP of $1.73, the average of the RMPCP 
from October 2017 to September 2018. The Regulation RMPCP credit 
calculation will be the applicable interval RMPCP multiplied by the 
applicable Regulation MW, Performance score, and Mileage ratio. The 
Regulation Market Capability Clearing Price (“RMCCP”) credit 
calculation will be the interval RMCP minus the applicable RMPCP 
multiplied by the applicable Regulation MW and Performance score. 
 
12  PJM Manual 11 Rev. 97 at 67. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 17 
5.5 Suspension. For each Affected Battery, if at any point during the Settlement 
term the average hourly performance score for the last 100 hours a resource has 
operated is lower than the Baseline Performance Score by more than or equal to seven 
percent (7%), the terms of this Settlement shall be suspended only as to that Affected 
Battery (the “Suspension Period”).  An Affected Battery shall remain in suspension 
until such time as it achieves an average performance score for the last 100 hours the 
resource has operated greater than or equal to the Baseline Performance Score while 
following the Settlement Regulation Signal.  For avoidance of doubt, Settling Parties 
agree that an Affected Battery’s participation in the PJM Regulation market during the 
Suspension Period shall be governed by the Tariff and the Operating Agreement and 
relevant PJM business practice manuals that exist while the Suspension Period occurs; 
however, the calculation of the Performance Score as defined in Tariff,  Attachment K-
Appendix, section 3.2.2(k) and PJM Manual 12, section 4.5.6 13 shall be performed 
under the same terms as it would if the Affected battery were not in a Suspension 
Period. Furthermore, the Settling Parties agree that during the Suspension Period the 
Affected Battery will follow the Settlement Regulation Signal. Participation in the PJM 
Regulation market during a Suspension Period is not subject to retroactive financial 
adjustment. 
5.5.1 For the avoidance of doubt, Settling Parties further clarify that they 
understand that an Affected Battery that is in a Suspension Period is not 
eligible for compensation under Section 5.4, above.   
 
13  PJM Manual 12 Rev. 38 at 54-56. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 18 
5.5.2 In the event PJM transitions to a single Regulation signal as described in 
Section 5.6, below, an Affected Battery in a Suspension Period will still 
be subject to and treated in accordance with this Section 5.5. 
5.6 Future Regulation Market Enhancements. PJM intends to file, pursuant to 
Section 205 of the Federal Power Act, revisions to its Tariff and Operating Agreement 
to implement enhancements to the Regulation market, which may include elimination 
of the Regulation D Signal and operation of the Regulation market using a single 
regulation signal that is technology agnostic with no firm commitment of neutrality 
(“Regulation Market Enhancement Filing”). The Regulation Market Enhancement 
Filing will not affect the terms or duration of this Settlement. Each Affected Battery 
Owner agrees that it will not file any pleadings in opposition to or pursue any other 
litigation or administrative proceedings opposing the elimination of the Regulation D 
Signal or initial implementation of a single Regulation signal as part of PJM’s 
Regulation Market Enhancement Filing on the basis that PJM’s proposal: (i) utilizes a 
single regulation signal; or (ii) employs a signal that is not designed to be energy-
neutral.  The Settling Parties acknowledge that this Settlement does not prohibit any 
Affected Battery Owner from  opposing  other substantive aspects of the Regulation 
Market Enhancement Filing, including, but not limited to, opposing specific design 
characteristics (such as performance measurement and compensation), opposing 
specific design components of a single signal, opposing settlement calculations such as 
the removal or modification to the current mileage ratio calculation or the performance 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 19 
scoring calculation, opposing elements of the signal as inconsistent with Order No. 
75514 or other applicable FERC precedent.  
5.7 Binding on All Parties. The Settlement will be binding on all intervenors, 
complainants, and respondents in Docket Nos. EL17-64-000 and EL17-65-000, 
whether or not they are signatories to this Settlement. 
ARTICLE VI 
SETTLEMENT AS ATTACHMENT TO TARIFF 
The Settlement, once approved by the Commission, will be filed through a 
compliance filing as an attachment to the Tariff and function as the filed rate for Affected 
Batteries providing Regulation service under the terms of the Settlement.  
ARTICLE VII 
WITHDRAWAL OF COMPLAINT IN DOCKET NO. EL17-64-000 
ESA agrees to withdraw its complaint filed in Docket No. EL17-64-000 with 
prejudice within ten (10) business days of an order approving this Settlement that is 
final and non-appealable; provided, however, ESA’s withdrawal shall be without 
prejudice with respect to Section 5.6, above, for its members that are not Settling Parties 
in the proceeding. 
ARTICLE VIII 
COST RECOVERY 
The costs of all Regulation service provided by an Affected Battery and 
compensated by PJM pursuant to the terms of Sections 5.1 through 5.4 of this 
Settlement, whether the offer for such service cleared or was only deemed cleared in the 
 
14  Frequency Regulation Compensation in the Organized Wholesale Power Market, 
Order No. 755, 137 FERC ¶ 61,064 (2011), reh’g denied, Order No. 755-A, 138 
FERC ¶ 61,123 (2012). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 20 
Regulation market under Section 5.4, shall be included as part of the Regulation 
Obligation and recovered through the Regulation Charge set forth in Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 3.2.2(a), and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1.  
ARTICLE IX 
 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
9.1 No Admissions or Precedent; Exceptions. This entire Settlement, and the 
Settling Parties’ performance of their obligations hereunder, are the result of the 
settlement and compromise of all the claims and actions expressly addressed in this 
Settlement, and neither the Settlement nor the Settling Parties’ performance hereunder 
shall be deemed to be an admission of any fact or of any liability. It is specifically 
understood and agreed that the Settlement represents a negotiated settlement in the 
public interest with respect to the matters agreed to herein for the sole purpose of the 
settlement of such matters agreed to herein, and the Settling Parties shall not be 
prejudiced or bound thereby in any proceeding, except as specifically provided for 
herein. The Settling Parties offer this Settlement solely for the purpose of compromising 
on the matters set for hearing by the Commission in Docket Nos. EL17-64-000 and 
EL17-65-000. The Settling Parties shall not be deemed to have approved, accepted, 
agreed, or consented to any concept, theory, or principle underlying or supposed to 
underlie any of the matters provided for herein. Further, the Settlement cannot be used, 
and no part hereof shall be used, to advance, support, or resist a position taken before 
the Commission or the courts by any Settling Party except as otherwise provided herein. 
9.2 Entire Agreement. This Settlement, including any attachments, constitutes the 
entire agreement between and among the Settling Parties and no other agreement with 
regard to the matters addressed in this Settlement shall be binding on the Settling Parties 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 21 
except by written amendment to this Settlement. This Settlement is an integrated 
package. None of the terms of the Settlement are agreed to, acquiesced in, or non-
opposed without each of the others. The various provisions of this Settlement are not 
severable and shall not become operative unless and until the Commission issues as a 
final order accepting or approving this Settlement as to all its terms and conditions 
without modification. Except for the terms and conditions enumerated in this Settlement 
and any attachment hereto, the Settling Parties acknowledge and agree that the Settling 
Parties have not made any other promises, warranties, or representations to each other or 
any other participant in the proceedings referenced herein regarding any aspect of the 
settlement of the matters addressed in this Settlement. Each Settling Party acknowledges 
that it has read this Settlement and executed it without relying upon any other promise, 
warranty, or representation, written or otherwise, of the other Settling Party or any 
other participant in the proceeding or the proceedings referenced herein. Each 
Settling Party acknowledges that no other participant in this proceeding or in the 
proceedings referenced herein has made any promise, warranty, or representation. 
9.3 Modification or Condition of Settlement.  The terms and conditions of this 
Settlement are expressly contingent upon approval or acceptance by the 
Commission of this Settlement without modification or condition. If the 
Commission by order conditions its approval or acceptance of this Settlement or 
requires its modification, this Settlement shall be deemed withdrawn, shall not be 
considered to be part of the record in this proceeding or the proceedings in Docket 
Nos. EL17-64-000 and EL17-65-000, shall not become effective, and shall be null 
and void, unless the Settling Parties, within ten (10) business days (subject to 
extension by mutual agreement of all the Settling Parties) of issuance of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 22 
Commission order approving or accepting this Settlement subject to condition or 
modification either: (i) accept the Commission’s modifications and conditions; or (ii) 
modify the Settlement to address or obviate the Commission’s concerns. 
9.4 Settlement Discussions. The discussions that have produced this Settlement 
have been conducted on the explicit understanding, pursuant to Rules 602 and 606  of  
the  Commission’s  Rules  of  Practice  and  Procedure,  18 C.F.R. §§ 385.602 and 
385.606, that all settlement communications and discussions shall be privileged and 
confidential, shall be without prejudice to the position of any Settling Party or 
participant making such communications or participating in any such discussions, 
and are not to be used in any manner in connection with this proceeding, the 
proceedings referenced herein, any other proceeding, or otherwise, except to the extent 
necessary to enforce the terms of this Settlement or to construe the meaning of the 
terms used herein. 
9.5 Not Admissible as Evidence. This Settlement is submitted pursuant to Rule 
602 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 C.F.R. § 385.602, and 
shall not be admissible in evidence or made a part of the record in any proceeding 
except as necessary to implement or enforce the Settlement. 
9.6 Further Assurances. Following execution of this Settlement, each Settling 
Party shall cooperate with and support, and shall not take any action inconsistent 
with: (i) the filing of this Settlement with the Commission; and (ii) efforts to 
obtain Commission approval or acceptance of the Settlement. Consistent therewith, 
none of the Settling Parties shall seek rehearing of an order approving or accepting 
the Settlement without modification or condition. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 23 
9.7 Successors and Assigns. This Settlement is binding upon and for the benefit of 
the Settling Parties and their successors and assigns. 
9.8 Ambiguities Neutrally Construed. This Settlement is the result of negotiations 
among Settling Parties, and has been reviewed by each Settling Party and its respective 
counsel. Accordingly, this Settlement shall be deemed to be the product of each Settling 
Party, and no ambiguity shall be construed in favor of or against any Settling Party. 
9.9 Authorizations. Each person executing this Settlement represents and warrants 
that he or she is duly authorized and empowered to act on behalf of, and to sign for, the 
Settling Party for whom he or she has signed. 
9.10 Counterparts. This Settlement may be executed in one or more counterparts, 
each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall be 
deemed to be one and the same instrument. 
9.11 Requisite Waivers. The Commission’s approval of this Settlement shall 
constitute the requisite grant of any waivers of any regulations as may be deemed 
necessary to permit the implementation of the provisions of this Settlement by its terms. 
9.12 Rules of Construction. Except as otherwise expressly provided for in this 
Settlement, the rules of interpretation and construction set forth below shall apply to this 
Settlement: 
9.12.1 All defined terms in the singular shall have the same meaning when 
used in the plural and vice versa; 
9.12.2 References to “includes,” “including,” and similar phrases, shall mean 
“including without limitation.” 
9.12.3 Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Sections” or “Articles” refer 
to sections or articles in this Settlement. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 24 
9.13 Headings. The titles and headings of the various sections in this Settlement are 
for reference purposes only. They are not to be construed or taken into account in 
interpreting this Settlement, and they do not qualify, modify, or explain the effects of 
this Settlement. 
9.14 Standard of Review. This Settlement may be amended only by the agreement or 
non-opposition of all Settling Parties. The standard of review for any modifications to 
this Settlement requested by a Settling Party, without the agreement or non-opposition 
of all other Settling Parties, shall be the “public interest” version of the just and 
reasonable standard of review.  This standard shall apply notwithstanding any contrary 
provision in the Tariff or Operating Agreement, including section 9.2 of the Tariff or 
any other provisions that give PJM unilateral filing rights. The standard of review for 
any modifications to this Settlement requested by any other party, non-party, or the 
Commission acting sua sponte, shall be the most stringent standard permissible under 
applicable law. 
9.15 No Settled Practice. This Settlement is made upon the express understanding 
that it constitutes a negotiated offer of settlement to resolve the issues presented in the 
underlying hearing in these proceedings. Neither the Settling Parties nor the 
Commission shall be deemed to have approved, accepted, agreed, or otherwise 
consented to any ratemaking principle or methodology or to any tariff interpretation or 
modification or to any other factor or concept underlying or supposed to underlie any of 
the matters herein, except as previously provided in this Settlement. The Commission’s 
approval of this Settlement shall not constitute precedent nor be used to prejudice any 
otherwise available rights or arguments of any party in a future proceeding, other than to 
enforce the terms of the Settlement, and shall not be used as evidence that a particular 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 25 
method is a “long standing practice” as that term is used in Columbia Gas Transmission 
Corp. v. FERC, 628 F.2d 578 (D.C. Cir. 1979), or a “settled practice” as that term is 
used in Public Service Commission of New York v. FERC, 642 F.2d 1335 (D.C. Cir. 
1980). 
9.16 Settlement Terms Govern.  To the extent there is any inconsistency between 
this Settlement and the Explanatory Statement submitted in support hereof, this 
Settlement shall control. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS PORTION INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
AGREEMENT CONTINUES ON NEXT PAGE 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 1 
WHEREFORE, the Settling Parties have caused their duly authorized representatives to 
execute and attest to this Settlement. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
 
 
By:      /s/ Michael Bryson 
Name:  Michael Bryson 
Title:  Vice President - Operations  
 
 
Energy Storage Association 
 
 
By:      /s/ Kelly Speakes-Backman 
Name:  Kelly Speakes-Backman 
Title:  Chief Executive Officer  
 
AES ES Tait, LLC  
 
 
By:      /s/ Judi L. Sobecki/rvg 
Name:  Judi L. Sobecki 
Title:  Secretary and General Counsel  
 
The AES Corporation 
 
 
By:      /s/ Randall V. Griffin 
Name:  Randall V. Griffin 
Title:  Chief Regulatory Counsel 
 
 
AES Laurel Mountain, LLC 
 
 
By:      /s/ Judi L. Sobecki/rvg 
Name:  Judi L. Sobecki 
Title:  Secretary and General Counsel  
 
 
 
Duke Energy Beckjord Storage, LLC 
 
 
By:      /s/ Christopher M. Fallon 
Name:  Christopher M. Fallon 
Title:  Duke Energy, Vice President 
DE Renewables, Authorized 
Signatory 
 
Duke Energy Corporation 
 
 
By: /s/ Robert Caldwell 
Robert Caldwell 
Senior Vice President and President, Duke 
Energy Renewables and Distributed 
Energy, Authorized Signatory 
 
 
 
 
 
(Signatures continue next page) 
 
McHenry Battery Storage, LLC 
 
EDF Renewables, Inc. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 2 
By:  EDF Renewables Asset Holdings, 
Inc., its sole Member and Manager 
 
 
By:    /s/ Marty Crotty 
Name:  Marty Crotty 
Title:  Executive Vice President, Asset 
Optimization 
 
 
 
By:    /s/ Marty Crotty 
Name:  Marty Crotty 
Title:  Executive Vice President, Asset 
Optimization 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS PORTION INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Signatures continue next page)  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 3 
 
 
THIS PORTION INTENTIONALLY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beech Ridge Energy Storage LLC 
 
 
By:  /s/ Alexander C. George 
Name:  Alexander C. George 
Title:  Senior Vice President, Invenergy 
Investment Company LLC, parent company 
of Beech Ridge Energy Storage LLC  
 
 
 
LEFT BLANK 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Invenergy Investment Company LLC 
 
 
By:  /s/ Alexander C. George  
Name:  Alexander C. George 
Title:  Senior Vice President, Invenergy 
Investment Company LLC, parent 
company of Beech Ridge Energy Storage 
LLC  
 
 
Grand Ridge Energy Storage LLC 
 
 
By:  /s/ Alexander C. George  
Name:  Alexander C. George 
Title:  Senior Vice President, Invenergy 
Investment Company LLC, parent company 
of Beech Ridge Energy Storage LLC  
 
 
Grand Ridge Energy IV LLC 
 
By:  /s/ Alexander C. George  
Name:  Alexander C. George 
Title:  Senior Vice President, Invenergy 
Investment Company LLC, parent company 
of Beech Ridge Energy Storage LLC  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Signatures continue next page) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 4 
 
FPL Energy Illinois Wind, LLC 
 
 
By:  /s/ Jessica Wang 
Name:  Jessica Wang 
Title:  Vice President 
 
 
NextEra Energy, Inc. 
 
 
By:  /s/ Joseph T. Kelliher 
Name:  Joseph T. Kelliher 
Title:  Exec. Vice President - Federal 
Regulatory Affairs  
 
 
Green Mountain Storage, LLC 
 
 
By:  /s/ Jessica Wang  
Name:  Jessica Wang 
Title:  Vice President 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Energy Storage Holdings, LLC  
 
 
By:  /s/ Jessica Wang 
Name:  Jessica Wang 
Title:  Vice President 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Signatures continue next page) 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 5 
 
Meyersdale Storage, LLC 
By: GlidePath Storage Operations LLC, 
  
By: GlidePath Power Operations LLC, 
    
By: GlidePath Power Solutions 
LLC, 
   
 
By:  /s/ Christopher McKissack 
Name:  Christopher McKissack 
Title:  Chief Operating Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
GlidePath Power Solutions LLC 
   
 
By:  /s/ Christopher McKissack  
Name:  Christopher McKissack 
Title:  Chief Operating Officer  
 
 
 
GlidePath Power LLC 
   
 
By:  /s/ Daniel J. Foley 
Name:  Daniel J. Foley 
Title:  Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Signatures continue next page) 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 6 
 
Battery Utility of Ohio, LLC 
By:  RES Energy Storage Holdings, LLC, 
its Manager 
 
By:  RES America Developments Inc., 
its Manager 
 
 
By:   /s/ Andrew Oliver 
Name: Andrew Oliver 
Title: Chief Technology Officer  
 
 
Renewable Energy Systems Americas, 
Inc. 
 
 
By:    /s/ Andrew Oliver 
Name: Andrew Oliver 
Title: Chief Technology Officer  
 
 
Joliet Battery Storage LLC 
By:  Northern Illinois Battery Storage 
Holding LLC, its Manager 
 
By:  RES Battery Storage Holding LLC, 
its Manager 
 
By:  RES America Developments 
Inc., its Manager 
 
 
By:  /s/ Andrew Oliver 
Name: Andrew Oliver 
Title: Chief Technology Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
West Chicago Battery Storage LLC 
By:  Northern Illinois Battery Storage 
Holding LLC, its Manager 
 
By:  RES Battery Storage Holding LLC, 
its Manager 
 
By:  RES America Developments 
Inc., its Manager 
 
 
By:  /s/ Andrew Oliver 
Name: Andrew Oliver 
Title: Chief Technology Officer 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Signatures continue next page) 
 
Hazle Spindle, LLC 
 
Convergent Energy and Power LP 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 7 
 
 
By: /s/ Johannes Rittershausen 
Johannes Rittershausen 
Authorized Signatory 
 
 
 
By:  /s/ Johannes Rittershausen 
Johannes Rittershausen 
Authorized Signatory 
 
  
Convergent Energy and Power GP LLC 
 
 
By:  /s/ Johannes Rittershausen  
Johannes Rittershausen 
Authorized Signatory 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS PORTION INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT A 
OPT-IN FORM FOR VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION BY UNLISTED 
AFFECTED BATTERIES 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 2 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE 
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 
 
Energy Storage Association ) Docket No. EL17-64-000 Complainant.
 ) 
v. ) 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. ) 
 Respondent. ) 
           ) 
                ) 
Renewable Energy Systems Americas ) Docket No. EL17-65-000  
and Invenergy Storage Development ) 
LLC ) 
Complainants ) 
v. ) (Not Consolidated)  
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. ) 
Respondent ) 
 
NOTICE OF [ULTIMATE UPSTREAM AFFECTED BATTERY OWNER] TO OPT 
INTO SETTLEMENT 
 On     [insert date], 2019, the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (“Commission”) approved a Settlement Agreement and Offer of Settlement 
(“Settlement”) by and among PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) and the Affected Battery 
Owners.15  Section 5.2.1 of the Settlement provides that an Affected Battery Owner that is not an 
Identified Affected Battery Owner under the Settlement but that would like to have an Affected 
Battery it owns or controls participate in the PJM Regulation market under the Settlement must 
identify its battery to PJM as an Affected Battery, demonstrate its eligibility as an Affected 
Battery to the satisfaction of PJM, and agree to abide by all terms of the Settlement before it may 
participate in the Regulation market under this Settlement.       [Ultimate 
Upstream Affected Battery Owner] hereby notifies the Commission that its subsidiary,  
     [Immediate Affected Battery], owns and operates the Affected 
 
15  Capitalized terms are defined in the Settlement.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 3 
Battery identified in Exhibit A to this Notice.       [Ultimate Upstream 
Affected Battery Owner] has fully complied with the requirements of Section 5.2.1 of the 
Settlement to PJM’s satisfaction and hereby elects to opt-in to the Settlement and agrees to be 
bound by all terms and conditions of the Settlement for the remainder of the Settlement term.  
This opt-in notice will take effect on    , 20__ [insert first day of the first 
month following its filing with the Commission].   
 Respectfully submitted, 
  
 Signature:       
 Name:       
 Title:         
 Representing:        
 
Endorsed by:  Signature:       
 Name:       
 Title:         
 Representing:  PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.  
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment SS - Regulation Market Settlement Agreement 
Effective Date: 7/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1651-001 - Page 4 
EXHIBIT A – AFFECTED BATTERY IDENTIFYING INFORMATION  
Immediate Affected 
Battery Owner 
Ultimate Upstream 
Affected Battery Owner 
Location of 
Identified 
Affected Battery 
Original Capacity of 
Identified Affected 
Battery 
    
 
 
 
 

