ATTACHMENT U 
 
INDEPENDENT TRANSMISSION COMPANIES 
 
References to section numbers in this Attachment U refer to sections of this Attachment U, 
unless otherwise specified. 
 
This Attachment U sets forth a general framework for the development and operation of 
independent transmission companies (“ITCs”) as to certain of the transmission facilities for 
which the Transmission Provider, PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”), is otherwise 
responsible.  The provisions of this Attachment U shall govern in the event of any conflict 
between this Attachment and the other provisions of the Tariff, except as to Tariff, Attachment 
M. If there is a conflict between the provisions of this Attachment U and Tariff, Attachment M, 
the provisions of Tariff, Attachment M shall govern. Under this Attachment U, certain 
responsibilities may be assigned to an ITC, if the ITC enters into an ITC Agreement in the form 
set forth in this Tariff and if FERC acceptance of the independence of the ITC and FERC 
approval or acceptance of the assignment is obtained as provided herein.  
 
This Attachment U sets forth the standard terms and conditions, and the standard division of 
rights, responsibilities, and functions, in conformance with FERC policy and precedent, for any 
ITC that operates under PJM.  Any entity or entities submitting a proposal to become an ITC 
(“ITC Sponsor”) shall enter into an ITC Agreement in the form set forth in Tariff, Attachment V 
, which is subject to and incorporates the standard terms and conditions of this Attachment U and 
identifies the ITC Transmission Facilities (as defined herein). 
 
It is recognized that PJM shall be responsible for administering any wholesale energy market 
(and providing all functions integral to such market administration) within the PJM region. 
 
1. FERC APPROVAL 
 
1.1 FERC Acceptance As A Prerequisite.  Before receiving the rights and responsibilities 
provided for under this Attachment U, the ITC Sponsor shall apply for and receive a FERC order 
accepting the ITC proposal to be implemented and finding that the proposed ITC satisfies 
FERC’s independence criteria and that such entity may be treated as an ITC under this 
Attachment U. 
 
1.2 Effect of FERC Acceptance.  Once FERC issues an order accepting the filing and 
providing the finding required under section 1.1 above, then the ITC, subject to satisfaction of 
the other requirements of this section 1, may operate under PJM consistent with the rights, 
responsibilities, and functions that have been accepted or approved by FERC. 
 
1.3 Any entity or entities submitting a proposal to become an ITC (“ITC Sponsor”) shall 
submit a filing with FERC detailing each of the rights, responsibilities, and functions the ITC 
proposes to assume, which may consist of some or all of the rights, responsibilities, and 
functions set forth in this Attachment U, together with specifics on implementing any of these 
assigned rights, responsibilities, and functions.  An ITC Sponsor must have, or demonstrate to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT U 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 2 
FERC that it shall have prior to implementation, ownership of, or the authority to direct the 
operation of, transmission facilities that are within the PJM region, or that are to be added to the 
PJM region as a result of the establishment of the ITC (such facilities referred to herein as the 
“ITC Transmission Facilities”). 
 
1.4 Following the FERC approvals specified in section 1.1 above, the ITC shall assume the 
rights and responsibilities described herein on the first day of the calendar month (“ITC 
Commencement Date”) following the date on which the ITC provides written notice to 
Transmission Provider that the ITC is prepared to assume its responsibilities hereunder in 
accordance with section 15 below.  PJM shall coordinate with the ITC prior to the ITC 
Commencement Date to ensure that PJM is capable as of the ITC Commencement Date of 
providing the responsibilities reserved to PJM hereunder as to the ITC Transmission Facilities 
and related bulk power facilities. 
 
1.5 Prior to the ITC Commencement Date, the ITC and each owner of transmission facilities 
participating in such ITC shall execute, with respect to the transmission facilities over which it 
has the authority to direct the operation:  (a) the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement; 
and (b) the Operating Agreement.  In the event of any conflict between the ITC Agreement and 
the Operating Agreement that affects the PJM Region other than the ITC Transmission Facilities, 
the provisions of the Operating Agreement shall control pending dispute resolution, with final 
approval of the dispute’s resolution by FERC.  In the event of any other express conflict between 
the ITC Agreement and the Operating Agreement or the transmission owners agreement 
executed by ITC, neither the transmission owners agreement nor the Operating Agreement shall 
be interpreted to limit the rights and responsibilities assigned to ITC in its role as an ITC 
pursuant to the ITC Agreement. 
 
2. SECURITY COORDINATION 
 
2.1 Regional Reliability Authority.  PJM shall be the regional Reliability Authority under 
NERC standards for all PJM transmission facilities, including any ITC Transmission Facilities. 
As the Reliability Authority, PJM is responsible for monitoring and directing corrective action 
for reliability for all areas in the PJM region.   
 
2.2 ITC Actions to Preserve System Security.  An ITC may monitor and analyze the security 
of the ITC Transmission Facilities and may take actions to protect the ITC Transmission 
Facilities from physical damage or prevent injury or damage to persons or property in 
accordance with good utility practice and the PJM Operating Manuals, as they may be modified 
pursuant to section 16 of this Attachment U, before requesting assistance from PJM.  At the 
earliest possible time, the ITC shall inform PJM of any such actions taken and coordinate further 
actions with PJM. 
 
2.3 Ultimate Authority.  Notwithstanding any other provision in this Attachment U, PJM may 
intercede and direct appropriate actions in its role as the regional Reliability Authority.  The ITC 
shall be responsible for implementing such corrective actions directed by PJM.  If such PJM 
action or direction is disputed, PJM’s position shall control pending resolution of the dispute. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT U 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 3 
3. BASE TRANSMISSION RATES 
 
3.1 Right to File Rate Changes.  The ITC shall possess the unilateral right, subject to 
consultation with PJM, to file at FERC and to place into effect pursuant to FPA section 205 the 
rates for transmission services  for delivery to the zone or zones comprising the ITC 
Transmission Facilities (including incentive rate structures, but excluding ancillary services, 
except as permitted by section 17 below, and excluding the congestion pricing methodology for 
the PJM region), and for additional services, if any, solely involving the ITC Transmission 
Facilities, and the revenue requirement for such zones for use in developing rates for other 
transmission services provided by PJM. Such rate or rate structure changes shall be included in 
discrete schedules or portions of the Tariff (hereafter, such the “ITC Rate Schedule”).  The ITC 
shall consult with PJM prior to making a section 205 rate filing to ensure that PJM has adequate 
opportunity to determine whether the proposal results in adverse impacts outside the zone or 
zones comprising the ITC Transmission Facilities. 
 
3.2 Limitations.  The ITC may not implement transmission rates in accordance with section 
3.1 above that violate the terms of the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement. 
 
3.3 No Rate Pancaking.  Notwithstanding its rights under section 3.1 above, the ITC shall not 
implement rates or a rate structure that results in a Transmission Customer paying more than one 
base transmission charge for use of the Transmission System for any one transaction. 
 
4. REVENUE DISTRIBUTION 
 
4.1 ITC Receipt of Transmission Revenues.  The ITC shall receive and/or retain revenues 
resulting from the provision of transmission service under the Tariff in accordance with the 
applicable revenue distribution procedures of the Consolidated Transmission Owners 
Agreement.  The ITC may take no unilateral action that interferes with or affects the revenue 
distribution provided for in such agreements or that interferes with the collection by PJM of the 
revenues due it for services it provides or arranges.   
 
4.2 Redistribution of Revenues.  The ITC may distribute the revenues due it in accordance 
with section 4.1 above in any manner it wishes subject to receiving any necessary regulatory 
approvals, without involvement of PJM. 
 
5. MANAGEMENT OF CONGESTION PRICING METHODOLOGY 
 
5.1 Subject to FERC approval, PJM shall determine the congestion pricing methodology for 
the PJM region, administer the dispatch of the generation and transmission facilities in the PJM 
region in accordance with the approved methodology, calculate the resulting congestion prices, 
and conduct all related billing and settlement.  
 
6. ACTIONS TO ENHANCE TRANSMISSION PERFORMANCE 
 
6.1 The ITC may take actions with respect to the system comprised of the ITC Transmission 
Facilities that can be accommodated within the framework of the approved congestion pricing 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT U 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 4 
methodology referenced in section 5.1 above.  It may do this through targeted transmission 
system investment, outage management, the determination of transmission device settings, 
establishing contractual arrangements (e.g., with generators and LSE’s), changes in technology, 
and other operating actions affecting the ITC Transmission Facilities. Before it first implements 
such actions, the ITC shall consult with PJM to develop procedures for inclusion in the PJM 
Operating Manuals for each class of such action that the ITC may thereafter implement.  In such 
consultation, PJM shall consider whether the type of action can be accommodated within the 
framework of the approved congestion pricing methodology and whether the type of action 
would result in violations of regional reliability criteria applied in the PJM region.  Following 
inclusion of procedures for each such type of action in the Manuals, the ITC may implement 
such actions in coordination with PJM in the manner set forth in the manuals.  In addition, the 
ITC and PJM shall cooperate with one another in solving operational issues outside the ITC 
region that affect the ITC Transmission Facilities, or inside the ITC region that affect facilities 
outside such region. 
 
6.2 Incentive Mechanisms.  The ITC shall possess the unilateral right to file with FERC 
incentive mechanisms relating to the system comprised of the ITC Transmission Facilities in a 
manner that can be accommodated within the framework of the approved methodology 
referenced in section 5.1 above.  The ITC shall consult with PJM prior to filing any such 
mechanism to allow PJM to consider whether any such proposed mechanism can be so 
accommodated and whether it would result in violations of regional reliability criteria applied in 
the PJM region.  In addition, prior to the implementation of any such incentive mechanism, the 
ITC and PJM shall coordinate the operation of any such mechanism.  PJM shall modify the PJM 
Operating Manuals as necessary to allow for the implementation of any FERC-approved 
incentive mechanism. 
 
7. TARIFF ADMINISTRATION 
 
7.1 Service under the Tariff. PJM is the Transmission Provider and remains responsible for 
administering the Tariff, which shall be amended to include the ITC Transmission Facilities and 
any provisions specific to the ITC Transmission Facilities that the ITC may propose pursuant to 
this Attachment U.  Transmission Customers on the ITC Transmission Facilities will receive 
transmission service under the Tariff. PJM shall execute the agreements with customers for 
service under the Tariff, except that the ITC and PJM shall both execute agreements with 
customers for interconnection services.  For transmission services for delivery to the zone or 
zones comprising the ITC Transmission Facilities, to the extent rate discounting is authorized as 
to such transmission services, the ITC shall make all decisions on rate discounts.  
 
7.2 OASIS. PJM shall maintain the OASIS specified in Tariff, section 4. Customers shall 
apply for service on the PJM OASIS. PJM shall have responsibility for granting or denying all 
transmission service requests, but shall coordinate as necessary with ITC in developing its 
response to transmission service requests, including any necessary studies.  The ITC shall be 
entitled to have and maintain a site page within the PJM OASIS for any additional services 
provided by such ITC. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT U 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 5 
7.3 Studies. PJM shall administer the contracts with the customers and shall provide the 
notices and make filings under this Tariff.  If a system impact, facilities, or other study is 
required to address a connection to, or a constraint or other impact on, the ITC Transmission 
Facilities, then the ITC shall assume responsibility for the study subject to oversight by, and 
coordination with,  PJM, and satisfaction of PJM criteria for such studies as set forth in the joint 
planning protocol developed pursuant to section 10.3 below.  The study agreement shall be 
executed by PJM; provided however, that nothing herein shall preclude the ITC from entering 
into additional agreements with customers regarding studies. 
 
7.4 ATC. PJM shall calculate Available Transfer Capability (“ATC”), in accordance with 
Tariff, Attachment C, for all facilities, including the ITC Transmission Facilities, provided that 
the ITC shall possess the unilateral right to provide, pursuant to section 9.1 of this Attachment U, 
the ratings, transfer limits, inputs, assumptions, and corresponding operating guides with respect 
to the ITC Transmission Facilities to be used in calculating ATC.  If PJM disagrees with these 
ratings, transfer limits, calculations, inputs, assumptions, or corresponding operating guides, the 
ITC’s position shall prevail pending dispute resolution, unless PJM determines that ITC’s 
position would violate system reliability criteria, in which case PJM’s position shall prevail 
pending dispute resolution.   
 
7.5 Scheduling.  Customers will schedule through the processes established by PJM.   
 
 
8. CURTAILMENTS 
 
8.1 PJM shall be responsible for directing all curtailments consistent with the Tariff and the 
Operating Agreement.  The ITC and PJM shall develop protocols to implement any curtailments 
ordered by PJM with respect to the ITC Transmission Facilities. 
 
8.2 The ITC may propose to PJM operating methods to avoid and/or limit the need for 
curtailments, and may implement such measures involving operation of the ITC Transmission 
Facilities, in coordination with PJM; provided, however, that if PJM determines that a measure 
proposed by the ITC would exacerbate an existing violation of a system reliability criterion, or 
cause a violation of such criterion elsewhere on the system, or of another system reliability 
criterion, then that measure shall not be implemented, pending dispute resolution.  
 
9. OPERATIONS 
 
9.1 Ratings and Rating Procedures.  The ITC is responsible for the establishment of ratings, 
transfer limits, and rating procedures for the ITC Transmission Facilities.  The ITC shall provide 
notice to PJM of all changes in ratings, transfer limits, and rating procedures, along with the 
related information called for by Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.9.8, in accordance 
with the deadlines set forth in such section 1.9.8 and in accordance with the PJM Manuals, as 
they may be modified pursuant to section 16 below; provided that nothing in section 1.9.8 shall 
preclude the ITC from instituting ratings changes (including, but not limited to, dynamic ratings 
changes) in accordance with applicable PJM Operating Manuals, as they may be revised 
pursuant to section 16 of this Attachment U.  Notwithstanding Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT U 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 6 
section 1.9.8 or Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.9.9(e), should PJM dispute the 
application of a rating, then the ITC’s position shall prevail pending dispute resolution. 
 
9.2 Transmission Maintenance.  The ITC shall be responsible for developing its own 
coordinated transmission maintenance and outage schedules for the ITC Transmission Facilities 
and shall advise PJM of all such maintenance and outage schedules, for all ITC Transmission 
Facilities, in accordance with Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.9.2.  PJM shall have 
the authority to disapprove transmission maintenance outages on the ITC Transmission Facilities 
if ITC fails to comply with the notice requirements of Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
1.9.2 to the Operating Agreement, or if PJM determines that such outages would create a 
violation of system reliability criteria.  PJM shall have the authority to revoke its previously 
granted approval of transmission maintenance outages on the ITC Transmission System if forced 
transmission outages or emergency circumstances occur such that proceeding with the approved 
outage would create a violation of system reliability criteria; provided that, where time permits, 
PJM will consult with the ITC to determine whether steps can be taken that would enable the 
maintenance outage to go forward as scheduled. PJM shall notify the ITC of the decision to 
reschedule or revoke approval of the transmission maintenance outage as soon as possible after 
the circumstances arise that create the need for the rescheduling or revocation.  Within a 
reasonable time after it requires a transmission maintenance outage to be rescheduled or revokes 
its approval of such an outage, PJM shall consult with the ITC to explain the reasons for its 
decisions and to consider measures that the parties may adopt to avoid the need for further 
rescheduling or revocation of outages.   
 
9.3 Generation Maintenance. In accordance with the Operating Agreement and with 
procedures in the PJM Manuals, as they may be modified pursuant to section 16 below, the ITC 
shall promptly provide PJM with any advance notice of scheduled outages it receives from 
generators, and PJM shall promptly provide the ITC with any advance notice it receives of 
scheduled generator outages that affect the ITC Transmission Facilities, to permit the ITC to 
schedule transmission outages on the ITC Transmission Facilities and perform its other functions 
hereunder, and to permit PJM to exercise its responsibilities under the PJM Operating Agreement 
with respect to generator outages.  The ITC may agree to coordinate with generators to modify 
its planned transmission outage schedules in coordination with generator outage schedules. 
 
9.4 Scheduling and Dispatch. PJM shall be responsible for administering day-ahead and real-
time wholesale energy markets, including transmission security monitoring and constrained 
economic dispatch, for all facilities, including the ITC Transmission Facilities. The ITC shall 
manage the configuration and topology of the ITC Transmission Facilities, including acting as 
the primary interface for all switching, maintenance, ratings, transfer limits, and monitoring, 
subject to the direction of PJM as the regional Reliability Authority, and in accordance with the 
PJM Manuals, as they may be revised pursuant to section 16 of this Attachment U.  
 
9.5 Operations.  The ITC shall have the authority and responsibility, in accordance with its 
agreements with the owners of the ITC Transmission Facilities, the terms of the Consolidated 
Transmission Owners Agreement, NERC and Applicable Regional Entity standards and 
guidelines, and the PJM Operating Manuals, as such manuals may be revised pursuant to section 
16 of this Attachment U, to operate those facilities in a safe, economical, and reliable manner.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT U 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 7 
PJM shall have the authority and responsibility to issue operating instructions to the ITC as they 
relate to the ITC Transmission Facilities in accordance with the PJM Manuals, as they may be 
revised pursuant to section 16 of this Attachment U, provided that nothing herein shall be 
construed to require a change in the physical control of the ITC Transmission Facilities using the 
ITC’s control center facilities and equipment.  The ITC and PJM shall seek agreement (where 
time limitations allow) on real-time operational decisions affecting the ITC Transmission 
Facilities not otherwise specified in the PJM Manuals.  In the absence of such agreement, or if 
time limitations do not permit reaching agreement, PJM shall exercise its authority to direct 
operations, subject to any actions the ITC may take in accordance with section 2.2 of this 
Attachment U. 
 
10. PLANNING 
 
10.1 PJM has the ultimate authority for developing a Regional Transmission Expansion Plan 
for its entire region, including the ITC Transmission Facilities, and may direct expansions as 
required in accordance with Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, or successor provisions, as they 
may be amended.  In the event of disputes between PJM and ITC concerning the contents of such 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, the position of PJM, as the ultimate authority for 
planning in the region, shall prevail.  Pursuant to the joint planning protocol developed under 
section 10.3 below, PJM shall be responsible for setting appropriate planning criteria and the ITC 
shall be responsible for studying the need for modifications, enhancements, or additions to the 
ITC Transmission Facilities and for proposing a plan of modifications, enhancements, or 
additions to the ITC Transmission Facilities. Each component of a timely plan proposed by the 
ITC shall be incorporated without PJM approval in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan if 
PJM determines that such component does not materially adversely affect the Transmission 
System other than the ITC Transmission Facilities. The ITC also may suggest, in accordance 
with any established stakeholder procedures under Schedule 6 of the PJM Operating Agreement, 
potential modifications, enhancements, or additions to transmission facilities in the PJM region 
other than the ITC Transmission Facilities. Subject to any necessary FERC approval, the ITC 
may adopt any procedures it deems necessary with respect to the ITC’s development of a plan of 
enhancements or expansions, so long as such procedures do not adversely affect PJM’s ability to 
prepare the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan in a timely and efficient manner.  Nothing in 
this Attachment U impairs the rights of affected parties to participate in the PJM planning 
process in accordance with Commission-approved procedures.  During the planning process the 
ITC shall adhere to all Applicable Regional Entity, NERC and PJM Planning criteria.  The ITC 
shall participate with PJM in the development of the system needs analysis, any system impact 
studies and the transmission expansion plans as necessary to promote fully coordinated and 
efficient solutions.   
 
10.2 Interconnection Requests.  Customer requests for interconnection, including requests for 
interconnection with the ITC Transmission Facilities, will be coordinated by PJM in accordance 
with the Tariff and the PJM Manuals, as they may be modified pursuant to section 16 of this 
Attachment U.  The ITC shall assume primary responsibility for interconnection projects on the 
ITC Transmission Facilities.  PJM shall be responsible for setting interconnection standards, 
receiving interconnection requests, administering the queue, coordinating the analysis of requests 
for interconnection with ITC Transmission Facilities with requests for interconnection with non-

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT U 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 8 
ITC Transmission Facilities, and ensuring that proposed interconnections to the ITC 
Transmission Facilities will not materially adversely affect the Transmission System other than 
the ITC Transmission Facilities.  PJM as the Transmission Provider under this Tariff also shall 
retain primary responsibility for all service-related matters under the Tariff, including issuance 
and administration of interconnection rights.  ITC shall regularly and frequently update PJM on 
the status and results of all interconnect studies performed by or for the ITC, in accordance with 
the joint planning protocol developed pursuant to section 10.3 below.  The results of any ITC 
studies prepared in response to interconnection requests shall be reflected in the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan. 
 
10.3 Joint Planning Protocol.  PJM and ITC shall develop a joint planning protocol to facilitate 
the seamless and efficient integration of all ITC transmission planning, study and analysis 
efforts, and all ITC proposals for transmission enhancements, modifications, and additions into 
the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan under Operating Agreement, Schedule 6 and the 
regional generation interconnection queuing, study, and cost allocation process under Tariff, Part 
IV. Such protocols shall be designed to facilitate the preparation of the Regional Transmission 
Expansion Plan, and shall reflect and accommodate the procedures, timelines, and study cycles 
employed for the regional transmission planning and generation interconnection process.  PJM 
and ITC shall each implement the provisions of the joint planning protocol.  PJM and ITC shall 
consult regularly concerning the extent to which changes to the joint planning protocol may be 
required to achieve the foregoing purposes in light of experience and, as applicable, the 
coordination of planning activities among PJM and all ITCs in the PJM region. 
 
10.4 Material Adverse Effect.  As used in this Attachment, a material adverse effect on the 
Transmission System other than the ITC Transmission Facilities shall not be present only if all of 
the following statements are true: 
 
 1. The proposed facility or requested service does not result in any non-ITC facilities 
in the PJM Region exceeding thermal, voltage, or stability limits, consistent with all applicable 
reliability criteria; and 
 
 2. The proposed facility or requested service does not result in any circuit breaker on 
non-ITC facilities in the PJM Region exceeding its interrupting capability. 
 
11. BILLING AND REMITTANCE 
 
11.1 PJM Responsibilities.  PJM shall be responsible for all billing, settlement, and revenue 
distribution, except as provided in section 11.2 below. 
 
11.2 ITC Responsibilities.  The ITC may elect to perform billing, settlement, and revenue 
distribution for the additional services, if any, provided by the ITC as referenced in section 3.1 of 
this Attachment U.  The ITC may elect to contract for the provision of those functions by PJM or 
another third party.  
 
12. MONITORING 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT U 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 9 
12.1 The Market Monitoring Unit established under Tariff, Attachment M shall monitor the 
services provided by the ITC, and the ITC-PJM relationship, to detect any problems that may 
inhibit a robust and competitive market.  Transactions utilizing the ITC Transmission Facilities 
shall be subject to the authority of the Market Monitoring Unit on the same basis as transactions 
involving any other Market Participant using other portions of the Transmission System. This 
provision is also found in Tariff, Attachment M, Article IV, section C-1. 
 
13. LIABILITY AND INDEMNITY 
 
13.1 The ITC shall execute the Operating Agreement as a Member of PJM and the liability 
and indemnity provisions as set forth in Operating Agreement, section 16 shall apply to acts or 
omissions resulting from, arising out of, or in any way connected with this Attachment or the 
ITC Agreement. 
 
14. DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
 
14.1 Dispute resolution as used herein refers to the dispute resolution procedures in Tariff, 
section 12, as it may be amended.  
 
15. NOTIFICATION OF ASSUMPTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
15.1 The ITC shall provide adequate notice to PJM of its intent to assume the responsibilities 
described in this Attachment U.   
 
16. OPERATING PROCEDURES AND PROTOCOLS 
 
16.1 Operating Guides, Manuals and Procedures.  As provided in section 9.5 of this 
Attachment U, the ITC shall operate the ITC Transmission Facilities in accordance with the PJM 
Operating Manuals.  Prior to start-up, and from time to time after the ITC commences 
operations, the ITC shall review such manuals and shall timely notify PJM of any changes or 
additions desired by the ITC to address specific conditions or operating procedures on the ITC 
Transmission Facilities.  Subject to PJM’s agreement, the PJM Manuals shall be revised or 
supplemented accordingly.  PJM shall apprise ITC of subsequent changes to the PJM manuals 
through its established procedures for stakeholder notification of such changes.  Any dispute 
between the ITC and PJM concerning changes to the PJM Manuals shall be resolved in 
accordance with section 14.1 above.  Nothing herein precludes the ITC from maintaining more 
detailed operating guides, manuals, and procedures specific to the ITC Transmission Facilities 
that are consistent with and subject to the operating guides and procedures in the PJM Manuals.  
 
16.2 ITC Start-Up Procedures and Protocols.  The ITC and PJM shall cooperate and use their 
best efforts to develop the necessary procedures and protocols to allow timely start-up of the ITC 
pursuant to this Attachment U.   
 
17. ANCILLARY SERVICES 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT U 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 10 
17.1 ITC System Control and Administrative Services.  ITC shall recover its costs of 
providing system control and other administrative services through an appropriate schedule to 
the Tariff, as filed and made effective by ITC, subject to FERC acceptance.    
 
17.2 System Restoration and Black Start Generation. PJM and the ITC shall coordinate in the 
preparation of a workable system restoration plan for the ITC Transmission Facilities in 
accordance with approved PJM Tariff requirements.  PJM and the ITC shall be responsible for 
implementing their respective assigned duties under such system restoration plan. 
 
17.3 Reactive Support. PJM shall be responsible for purchases of reactive support from 
generators under the PJM Tariff.  If desired by ITC and approved by FERC, PJM shall designate 
ITC as a supplier of reactive support in accordance with an ITC Rate Schedule to be included in 
the PJM Tariff. 
 
18. INFORMATION SHARING 
 
18.1 Subject to FERC approval of any necessary changes to the PJM Operating Agreement, 
PJM shall share with the ITC information within the possession of PJM that is necessary for the 
ITC to perform those rights, responsibilities and functions that FERC authorizes the ITC to 
perform and the ITC shall share with PJM information within the possession of the ITC that is 
necessary for PJM to perform those rights, responsibilities and functions that FERC authorizes 
PJM to perform.  If such data are immediately available, it is expected that the parties will 
establish communication links for data transfer as appropriate and necessary.  Data requiring 
manipulation shall be made available within a reasonable time. In all cases, all data designated as 
confidential shall be handled as provided in section 18.2 of this Attachment U. 
 
18.2 Confidentiality.  To the extent ITC obtains from PJM or any Member of PJM any 
documents, data, or other information that has been designated by PJM or a Member as 
confidential, ITC shall treat such information in the same manner and subject to the same 
procedures, restrictions, and obligations as set forth in Operating Agreement, section 18.17. To 
the extent PJM obtains from ITC any documents, data, or other information that has been 
designated by ITC as confidential, PJM shall treat such information in accordance with the 
procedures, restrictions, and obligations as set forth in Operating Agreement, section 18.17. 
 
19. INTERREGIONAL COORDINATION 
 
19.1 PJM is responsible for coordination with all neighboring regions, including those 
adjacent to the ITC (or operated by the ITC in adjacent regions). 
 
19.2 To the extent that an ITC (or its affiliates) is operating in PJM and a neighboring region, 
the ITC may, in coordination with PJM, undertake efforts to facilitate interregional coordination 
between PJM and the neighboring region.  The ITC shall consult with PJM prior to 
implementing any such efforts to allow PJM to consider whether the actions could be 
accommodated within the framework of PJM’s approved congestion pricing methodology and 
other rules and whether the actions would result in violations of regional reliability criteria 
applied in the PJM region.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT U 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 11 
 
20. REVISION OF ITC FUNCTIONS   
 
20.1 The division of functions and responsibilities between PJM and ITC shall be as set forth 
in this Attachment U and the ITC Agreement and may be modified from time to time to reflect 
the functionality permitted for independent transmission companies in accordance with FERC 
policy as pronounced in proceedings concerning Standard Market Design or otherwise, and to 
reflect the experience of the parties in the actual performance of their functions hereunder.  PJM 
and ITC from time to time will review the allocation of functions and responsibilities and 
address appropriate changes, if any, to the division of functions between ITC and PJM consistent 
with such FERC policy, and any such changes shall be subject to any required regulatory 
approvals.   
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT V 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 1 
