ATTACHMENT H-9 
Annual Transmission Rates – Potomac Electric Power Company Zone 
for Network Integration Transmission Service 
 
1. Potomac Electric Power Company’s (Pepco’s) annual transmission revenue requirement 
and the associated rate for Network Integration Transmission Service are equal to the 
results of the formula shown in Attachment H-9A posted on the PJM Internet site which 
reflects the facilities of Pepco within the Zone of 115 kV and higher voltage.  The rate 
determined pursuant to Attachment H-9A shall be implemented pursuant to the Formula 
Rate Implementation Protocols set forth in Attachment H-9B.  Service utilizing facilities 
at voltages below 115 kV will be provided at rates determined on a case-by-case basis.  
2. In the event that any other entity in the Zone becomes a signatory to the Transmission 
Owners Agreement, and adopts an annual transmission revenue requirement (established 
in accordance with applicable requirements, including those of the FERC to the extent 
applicable) for inclusion in the Tariff, such revenue requirement and associated rate for 
Network Integration Transmission Service shall be stated in an appendix to this 
Attachment H-9 and added to the annual transmission revenue requirement and rate for 
Network Integration Transmission Service for the Zone.  The foregoing shall not affect 
such rights as any entity may have under Section 30.9 of the Tariff, provided that no such 
entity may recover more than its annual transmission revenue requirement through the 
combination of any rights exercised pursuant to this Attachment H-9 and Section 30.9 of 
the Tariff.   
3. The rate derived pursuant to Sections 1 and 2 above shall be effective until amended by 
the applicable Transmission Owner(s) within the Zone or modified by the Commission.  
No filing by a Transmission Owner with respect to its revenue requirement or rate shall 
be deemed a basis for examining the revenue requirement or rate (or methodology for 
determining the revenue requirement or rate) of any other Transmission Owner within the 
Zone.  
4. In addition to the rate set forth in Sections 1 and 2 of this Attachment, the Network 
Customer purchasing Network Integration Transmission Service shall pay for 
transmission congestion charges, in accordance with the provisions of the Tariff, and any 
amounts necessary to reimburse the Transmission Owners for any amounts payable by 
them as sales, excise, “Btu,” carbon, value-added or similar taxes (other than taxes based 
upon or measured by net income) with respect to the amounts payable pursuant to the 
Tariff. 
5. Other Supporting Facilities Charge.  In accordance with (1) above, the Zone rate for 
Network Integration Transmission Service for the delivery of all capacity and energy to 
the electric system of Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc. is increased by 
$3,350 per megawatt per year to reflect the use of facilities at voltages below 115kV. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-9A Pt. 1A Potomac Electric Power Company 
Effective Date: 8/1/2021 - Docket #: ER21-206-004 - Page 1 
