[ATTACHMENT H-14A - Part 5 of 5]

 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-15A PT. 2 - Dayton Power & 
Light 
Effective Date: 4/17/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1268-002 - Page 55 
Dayton Power and Light 
ATTACHMENT H-15A 
Attachment 13 - Administrative and General Expense Detail 
December 31, 2024 
              
       
Directly Assigned to: 
  
Line Description 
 
FERC 
Account 
 
Amount 
 
Transmission 
 
Distribution 
 
Other 
 
To Be Allocated 
Via the Wage 
Allocator 
              
1 Administrative and general salaries 920 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
2 Office supplies and expenses 921 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
3 Administrative expense transferred 922 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
4 Outside services employed 923 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
5 Property insurance 
 
924 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
6 Injuries and damages 
 
925 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
7 Employee pension and benefits 926 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-15A PT. 2 - Dayton Power & 
Light 
Effective Date: 4/17/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1268-002 - Page 56 
              
8 Franchise requirements 927 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
9 Regulatory commission expenses 928 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
10 Duplicate charges 
 
929 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
11 General advertising 
 
930.1 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
12 Miscellaneous general expenses 930.2 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
13 Rents 
 
931 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
14 Maintenance of general plant 935 
 
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
              
15 Total 
   
           -    
 
                 -    
 
              -    
 
      -    
 
                    -    
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 1 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTACHMENT H-15B  
The Dayton Power and Light Company  
Formula Rate Implementation Protocols  
Section 1 Definitions 
a. An Accounting Change is any change in accounting by DP&L or its affiliates that affects 
inputs to the Formula Rate or the resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate. 
b. The Annual Review Procedures provide for review and challenge by Interested Parties of 
the Annual True-up Adjustment and the Annual Update. 
c.  The Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement or ATRR means the Actual or Projected Net 
Transmission Revenue Requirement calculated in accordance with the Formula Rate and posted on the PJM 
website no later than June 15 or October 1, respectively.  
d.  The Annual True-up Adjustment means the difference between the revenues under the  
Formula Rate based upon the Projected ATRR (not including the True-up Adjustment) and the Actual  
ATRR for the same Rate Year.  The Annual True-up Adjustment is included in the net transmission revenue 
requirement for the next Rate Year.  
e. The Annual Update means DP&L’s Projected ATRR for the upcoming Rate Year, including 
any Annual True-up Adjustment for the prior Rate Year. 
 
f. A Formal Challenge is a written challenge, filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (the “Commission” or “FERC”), to the Annual True-up Adjustment submitted to the 
Commission or to the Projected ATRR posted to the PJM website. 
 
g. The Formula Rate is the collection of formulas and worksheets, unpopulated with any data, 
included as Attachment H-15A of the PJM Tariff. 
 
h.  An Informal Challenge is a process by which Interested Parties can challenge certain aspects of 
the Annual True-up Adjustment or Annual Update.  Informal Challenges are presented to DP&L.  
 
i.  Interested Parties include any transmission customer in the Dayton Zone, the Ohio Public  
Utilities Commission, or any party that has standing in a DP&L Formula Rate proceeding under sections 205 or 
206 of the Federal Power Act.  
j.  The Net Transmission Revenue Requirement for transmission services for the upcoming 
Rate Year shall be the sum of the Projected ATRR for the upcoming Rate Year plus or minus the Annual 
True-Up Adjustment from the previous Rate Year, including interest.  
 
k.  The PJM Tariff means the Open Access Transmission Tariff of the PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. (“PJM”), of which these Protocols and the Formula Rate are included.  
 
l. The Posting Date is the date on which DP&L causes to be posted to the PJM website its 
Annual Update, which is October 1 of each year. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 2 
m. The Publication Date means the date on which the Annual True-up Adjustment is posted to 
the PJM website and filed with the Commission as an informational filing, which is June 15 of reach Rate 
Year. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 3 
 
 
 
 
 
n. Rate Year means the twelve consecutive month period that begins on January 1 and 
continues through December 31.  
o.  The Review Period is the period during which Interested Parties can request information or 
make Informal Challenges to the Annual True-up Adjustment or Annual Update.  The Review Period  
extends from the Publication Date to January 31 of the following calendar year.  Information requests can be 
submitted through December 1 of the current year.  
 
p. The Annual Stakeholder Meeting is an annual meeting for Interested Parties with the 
intention that DP&L present, explain and answer questions related to the Annual True-up Adjustment and 
Annual Update. 
 
Section 2 Applicability 
The following procedures shall apply to DP&L’s calculation of its Actual ATRR and related Annual True- 
Up Adjustment, as well as its Projected ATRR and Schedule 1A.  A timeline of the annual protocol process 
is contained in Attachment A. 
 
Section 3 Projected ATRR, Actual ATRR, Annual True-Up Adjustment and Annual Update 
 
a. The Projected ATRR calculated pursuant to Attachment H-15A shall be applicable to 
services on and after May 3, 2020 and shall be applicable thereafter for services on and after each January 1 
through December 31 of each Rate Year.  
 
b.  On or before June 15, 2021, and on or before June 15 of each succeeding Rate Year (the 
Publication Date), DP&L shall calculate its Actual ATRR and resulting Annual True-up Adjustment  
according to the Formula Rate and cause the results to be posted on the PJM website and filed with the  
Commission, for informational purposes only. The submission of such informational filing with FERC shall not 
require any action by the agency.  
 
c.  On or before October 1, 2020, and on or before October 1 of each succeeding Rate Year (the 
Posting Date), DP&L shall calculate its Annual Update for the upcoming Rate Year. As part of the Annual 
Update, DP&L shall determine its Projected ATRR, calculated according to the Formula Rate contained in 
Attachment H-15A. The Annual Update will also include the results of the Annual True-up Adjustment for the 
prior Rate Year, when applicable.  
 
d.  If the Publication Date or the Posting Date falls on a weekend or a holiday recognized by 
FERC, the Publication Date or Posting Date, as applicable, shall be the next business day.  
 
e.  Between fifteen (15) and thirty (30) days after the Posting Date, DP&L shall hold the  
Annual Stakeholder Meeting to present, explain and answer questions concerning the Annual True-up  
Adjustment for the prior Rate Year and the Annual Update for the upcoming Rate Year. DP&L will provide  
the opportunity for remote participation at Stakeholder Meetings.  To ensure that Interested Parties receive  
sufficient advance notice of Stakeholder Meetings, DP&L shall schedule each Stakeholder Meeting at least  
four (4) months in advance, cause such notice to be posted on the PJM website, and provide Interested  
Parties, via e-mail to the most recent e-mail address provided to DP&L, notice of the Stakeholder Meeting.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 4 
f.  DP&L shall modify the Annual Update to reflect any changes that it and the Interested  
Parties agree upon by no later than December 1 and shall cause the revised Annual Update to be posted on  
the PJM website no later than December 15.   Any change agreed to or required after November 30 will be  
implemented as part of the subsequent Annual True-up Adjustment to be effective in the next following Rate  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 5 
 
 
 
 
 
Year.  
 
g. The Annual True-Up Adjustment informational filing shall: 
i. Include a workable, data-populated Formula Rate and underlying workpapers in 
native format with all formulas and links intact and based on DP&L’s FERC Form No. 1 reports for the 
prior Rate Year;  
 
ii.  Provide supporting documentation and workpapers for data that are used in the  
Annual True-Up Adjustment that are not otherwise available directly from the FERC Form No. 1 reports;  
 
iii. Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the 
calculation of the Annual True-Up Adjustment; 
iv. Identify any changes in the Formula Rate references (page and line numbers) to the 
FERC Form No. 1 report; 
 
v. Identify all material adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data in determining 
Formula Rate inputs, including relevant footnotes to the FERC Form No. 1 and any adjustments not shown 
in the FERC Form No. 1; 
 
vi. With respect to any Accounting Change that affects inputs to the Formula Rate, or 
the resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate, DP&L shall provide in the Annual True-up Adjustment 
informational filing: 
 
A. a description of any changes in an accounting standard or policy; 
B. a description of any accounting practices for unusual or unconventional 
items where FERC has not provided specific accounting direction; 
 
C. any correction of material errors and material prior period adjustments that 
impact the Annual True-Up Adjustment calculation or prior Annual True-up Adjustments; 
 
D. a description of any new estimation methods or policies that change prior 
estimates; and 
E. changes to income tax elections; 
vii. Identify items included in the Annual True-Up Adjustment at an amount other than 
on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
 
viii. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year and 
explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to the Formula Rate Annual True-Up 
Adjustment; 
ix. For each item identified pursuant to 3.g. vi - 3.g. viii of these Protocols, a narrative 
explanation of the individual effect of such changes on charges billed under the Formula Rate; and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 6 
x. Provide for the prior Rate Year the following information related to affiliate cost 
allocation: 
 
A. a detailed description of the methodologies used to allocate and directly 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 7 
 
 
 
 
 
assign costs between DP&L and its affiliates by service category or function, including any changes to such  
cost allocation methodologies from the prior Rate Year and the reasons and justifications for those changes;  
and  
 
B. the magnitude of such costs that have been allocated or directly assigned 
between DP&L and each affiliate by service category or function. 
 
h. The Projected ATRR shall: 
i. Include a workable data-populated Formula Rate and underlying workpapers in 
native format with all formulas and links intact;  
ii.  Provide supporting documentation and workpapers for all operating property  
additions that are used in the Projected ATRR, including projected costs of plant, expected construction  
schedule and in-service dates for all projects over $5 M that are closing to plant in the Rate Year; and  
 
iii. Provide enough information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the calculation 
of the Projected ATRR. 
i.  If DP&L files any corrections to its FERC Form 1 that impacts an Annual True-up  
Adjustment, such corrections and any resulting refunds or surcharges shall be reflected in the subsequent 
Annual True-Up Adjustment or Projected ATRR as a correction, with interest.  
j.  Interest on the Annual True-Up Adjustment shall be determined based on the Commission's 
regulations at 18 C.F.R § 35.19a a(iii)((A). The interest payable shall be calculated using the average of the 
interest rates used to calculate the time value of money for the twenty-four (24) months during which the over- 
or under- recovery in the ATRR exists (middle of Rate Year for which Annual True-up Adjustment is being 
determined to the middle of Rate Year where the Annual True-Up Adjustment is included in the Net 
Transmission Revenue Requirement). The interest during this 24-month period will initially be estimated and 
then trued-up to actual and included in a subsequent Annual True-Up Adjustment.  
 
k.  If after October 1, but prior to December 15, PJM determines the actual Network Service  
Peak Load for Network Integration Transmission Service (“NITS”) for the Dayton Zone that will be used to 
determine each Network Customer’s Zone Network Load pursuant to Section 34.1 of the Tariff and that  
actual peak load differs from the value used to calculate the NITS Rates to be in effect pursuant to  
Attachment H-15A for the upcoming Rate Year, the rate for NITS shall be adjusted to reflect the updated  
Network Service Peak Load, and DP&L shall cause an updated calculation of the NITS Rate to be posted on the 
PJM website no later than fifteen (15) business days following the posting by PJM of the actual Network Service 
Peak Load for the Dayton Zone.  
 
l.  Formula Rate inputs for (i) rate of return on common equity; (ii) extraordinary property  
losses, and (iii) depreciation and amortization expense rates shall be stated values to be used in the Formula  
Rate until changed pursuant to an Federal Power Act (“FPA”) section  205 or 206 proceeding.  To the extent  
not barred or limited by the Moratorium Period and other provisions set forth in the settlement of Docket  
No. ER20-1150, DP&L may make a limited section 205 filing to change its rate of return on common equity  
to reflect incentive rate of return adders.  Such filings shall comply with the filing requirements that the  
FERC may have established for seeking such incentives.  DP&L may also make a limited section 205 filing  
to request recovery of extraordinary property losses or change or add new depreciation and amortization  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 8 
rates.  In each case, the sole issue for examination in any such limited section 205 filing shall be whether  
such proposed changes are just and reasonable and shall not include other aspects of the Formula Rate.  
Changes in depreciation and amortization rates to track a state commission order shall become effective only  
as the result of an FERC order permitting a change in depreciation and amortization rates, which, to the  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 9 
 
 
 
 
 
extent possible, should be made effective as of the same date the state commission order becomes effective.  
DP&L will include notification of such changes in the applicable informational filing.  DP&L may also  
request transmission rate incentives pursuant to section 219.  Nothing herein is intended to authorize DP&L  
to make a limited section 205 filing for a change in its base (non-incentive) rate of return on equity.  
 
m.  It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations 
described therein, that each input to the Formula Rate will be either taken directly from the FERC Form 1 or 
reconcilable to the Form 1 by the application of clearly identified and supported information.  If the Form 1 is 
superseded, the successor form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as necessary to provide equivalent 
information as that provided in the Form 1.  If the Form 1 is discontinued, equivalent information as that  
provided in the Form 1 shall be utilized.  
Section 4.  Fundamental Predicates.  
 
a. The Formula Rate is premised upon data reported or recorded by DP&L consistent with the 
following predicates ("Fundamental Predicates"): 
 
(i) FERC's Uniform System of Accounts; 
(ii) applicable FERC Form No. 1 reporting requirements; 
(iii) FERC's policies governing formula rates for transmission service, including FERC's 
policies that all charges billed under transmission formula rates are subject to: (A) challenge on grounds of 
imprudence, and (B) an order by FERC requiring refunds in the manner and to the extent ordered;  
 (iv) FERC orders establishing transmission ratemaking policies of general application to  
transmission-owning public utilities, including DP&L; and  
(v) the accounting and cost allocation policies, practices and procedures of DP&L to 
the extent consistent with the authorities listed in (i) through (iv) above. 
b.  The Formula Rate is based upon each of these Fundamental Predicates as it existed as of the  
date these Protocols are filed with FERC. Provisions of the Formula Rate may be modified to conform to  
changes in these Fundamental Predicates in accordance with Section 7 of these Protocols or as ordered by  
FERC.  
c.  The Projected ATRR and the Actual ATRR shall include only those costs that are directly  
related to or properly allocable to transmission service rendered to transmission customers in the Dayton  
Zone pursuant to the PJM OATT, and customers shall be entitled to review and challenge (i) the  
reasonableness and prudence of costs and expenditures included in the Projected and Actual ATRR, (ii) the  
basis for and reasonableness of allocating all or any portion of such costs and expenditures to PJM OATT  
transmission service, and (iii) whether the allocation as applied results in a disproportionate allocation of  
cost to the transmission function.  Any such review and challenge shall adhere to the procedures set forth in  
Section 7 below.  
 
 
Section 5 Construction Work in Progress 
a. This section applies to all DP&L projects where the Commission has granted DP&L a 
Construction Work in Progress (“CWIP”) Incentive.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 10 
b.  For affected transmission projects listed on Attachment 5 of DP&L’s Formula Rate, DP&L 
shall use the following accounting procedures to ensure that, if authorized by a Commission order to include 
100% of CWIP in transmission rate base, DP&L ceases to accrue for recovery any Allowance for Funds Used 
During Construction (“AFUDC”) and if, less than 100% of CWIP in transmission rate base is  
authorized, a corresponding percentage of AFUDC accruals will cease.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i. DP&L shall assign each transmission project where the Commission has authorized 
the CWIP Incentive a unique Funding Project Number (“FPN”) for internal cost tracking purposes.  
ii.  DP&L shall record actual construction costs to each FPN through work orders that  
are coded to correspond to the FPN for each applicable transmission project. Such work orders shall be  
segregated from work orders for other transmission projects for which the Commission has not authorized 
DP&L to include any portion of CWIP in rate base.  
iii.  For each applicable transmission project, DP&L shall prepare monthly work order  
summaries of costs incurred under the associated FPN. These summaries shall show monthly additions to  
CWIP and transfers to plant in service and shall correspond to amounts recorded in DP&L’s FERC Form 1.  
DP&L shall use these summaries as data inputs into the Annual True-up Adjustment. DP&L shall make such  
work order summaries available upon request under the review procedures of Section 6 of these Protocols.  
iv.  When a transmission project for which the Commission granted the CWIP  
Incentive, or portion thereof, is placed into service, DP&L shall deduct from the total CWIP the accumulated  
charges for work orders under the FPN for that project, or portion thereof. The purpose of this control  
process is to ensure that expenditures are not double counted as both CWIP and as additions to plant.  
v.  For transmission projects for which the Commission has not granted the CWIP  
Incentive, DP&L shall record AFUDC to be applied to CWIP and capitalized as part of CWIP and included in 
the project investment when the project is placed into service.  
vi.  For transmission projects where the Commission has granted the CWIP Incentive,  
DP&L will include in the investment for such project’s AFUDC accrued prior to the date that DP&L first 
includes the CWIP for such projects in rate base.  
 
c. For each transmission project listed on Attachment 5 of DP&L’s Formula Rate, DP&L shall 
include in its informational filing a report that includes the following information concerning each project: 
 
i. the actual amount of CWIP recorded for each project by month for the Rate Year; 
 
ii. a statement of the current status of each project; and 
 
iii. the estimated in-service date for each project. 
 
Section 6 Annual Review Procedures 
Each Annual True-Up Adjustment and Annual Update shall be subject to the following review procedures:  
a.  Interested Parties shall have until December 1 to serve reasonable information requests on 
DP&L for both the Annual True-up Adjustment and the Annual Update.  If December 1 falls on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for submitting all information and document requests shall be 
extended to the next business day.  Such information and document requests shall be limited to what is  
necessary to determine:  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 12 
i. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
 
ii. whether the Annual True-Up Adjustment or Annual Update fails to include data 
properly recorded in accordance with these Protocols and the Fundamental Predicates or includes data not  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 13 
 
 
 
 
 
properly recorded in accordance with these Protocols and the Fundamental Predicates;  
 
iii.  whether the costs included in the Annual Update are properly accounted for (e.g., 
recordable and recorded in the appropriate accounts) under FERC's USoA and otherwise consistent 
with DP&L’s accounting policies, practices, or procedures;  
 
iv. whether there are errors in the current Annual Update and, if any are identified, 
whether the same or similar errors were made in prior Formula Rate filings with a further 
explanation identifying each Formula Rate filing in which such errors were made; 
v. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these Protocols; 
 
vi. the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations 
shown in the Annual True-Up Adjustment or the Annual Update; 
vii. the prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
 
viii. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or the 
FERC Form No. 1; or 
ix. any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
The information and document requests shall not otherwise be directed to ascertaining  
whether the Formula Rate is just and reasonable.  Additionally, information requests shall not solicit  
information concerning costs or allocations where the costs or allocation methods have been determined by 
FERC (or resolved by a settlement accepted by FERC) or for Annual True-Up Adjustments for other Rate 
Years, except that such information requests shall be permitted if they seek to determine if there has been a 
material change in DP&L’s circumstances.  
b.  DP&L shall make a good faith effort to respond to information requests pertaining to the 
Annual True-Up Adjustment and Annual Update within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such  
requests. DP&L shall respond to all information and document requests by no later than December 20,  
unless the information exchange time period is extended by DP&L or FERC.  If December 20 falls on a 
weekend or a holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for response to information requests shall be  
extended to the next business day.  
 
c.  If DP&L and any Interested Party are unable to resolve disputes related to information  
requests submitted in accordance with these Annual Review Procedures, DP&L or the Interested Party may  
petition FERC to appoint an Administrative Law Judge as a discovery master. The discovery master shall  
have the power to issue binding orders to resolve discovery disputes and compel the production of  
discovery, as appropriate, in accordance with these Annual Review Procedures and consistent with FERC’s  
discovery rules.  
d.  DP&L will cause to be posted on the PJM website all information requests from Interested 
Parties and DP&L’s response to such requests; except, however, if responses to information and document 
requests include material deemed by DP&L to be confidential information, such information will not be publicly 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 14 
posted but will be made available to requesting parties pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to be executed by 
DP&L and the requesting party.  
e.  DP&L shall not claim that responses to information and document requests provided  
pursuant to these Protocols are subject to any settlement privilege in any subsequent FERC proceeding  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 15 
 
 
 
 
 
addressing DP&L’s Annual True-Up Adjustment, Annual Update or its Formula Rate.  
 
f. The dates and time periods set forth in this Section 6 may be modified by agreement 
between DP&L and other Interested Parties. 
Section 7 Challenge Procedures 
 
a. Interested Parties have through January 31 of the following year to make an Informal 
Challenge to DP&L’s Annual True-up Adjustment or Annual Update.  If January 31 falls on a weekend or a  
holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for submitting all Informal Challenges shall be extended to the  
next business day.  Failure to pursue at least one issue through an Informal Challenge shall bar the filing of a  
Formal Challenge.  If at least one Informal Challenge was pursued, then a Formal Challenge may be filed on  
that issue or any other issue.  Failure to pursue an issue with respect to any particular Annual True-Up  
Adjustment or Annual Update shall not bar pursuit of such issue through Informal Challenge or the lodging  
of a Formal Challenge as to such issue as it relates to subsequent Annual True-Up Adjustments or Annual  
Updates.  This Section 7.a shall in no way affect a party’s rights under FPA section 206.  
 
b.  A party submitting an Informal Challenge to DP&L must specify the inputs, supporting  
explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information to which it objects and provide an appropriate  
explanation and documents to support its challenge.  DP&L shall make a good faith effort to respond to any  
Informal Challenge within twenty (20) business days of notification of such challenge.  DP&L, and where  
applicable, PJM, shall appoint a senior representative to work with the party that submitted the Informal  
Challenge (or its representative) toward a resolution of the challenge.  If DP&L disagrees with such  
challenge, DP&L will provide the Interested Party(ies) with an explanation supporting the inputs and  
provide supporting calculations, descriptions, allocations, or other information.  No Informal Challenge may be 
submitted after January 31, and DP&L must respond to all Informal Challenges by no later than  February 28, 
unless the Review Period is extended by DP&L or FERC.  Informal Challenges shall be subject to the  
resolution procedures and limitations in this Section 7.  
 
c. Informal and Formal Challenges shall be presented to DP&L or filed before the FERC, as 
applicable, pursuant to these Protocols and shall: 
i. Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the filed Formula 
Rate or Protocols; 
 
ii. Explain how the action or inaction violates the Formula Rate or Protocols; 
iii. Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues presented by the action 
or inaction as such relates to or affects the party filing the Formal Challenge, including: 
 
A. The extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
B. Whether the Annual True-Up Adjustment or Annual Update fails to include 
data properly recorded in accordance with these Protocols; 
C. The proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these 
Protocols; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 16 
D. The accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the charges 
shown in the Annual True-Up Adjustment or Annual Update, including errors as described in Section 6.a.iv, for 
the current Annual True-Up Adjustment or Annual Update and for any prior years in which the Formula Rate 
included such errors;  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E. The prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
F. The effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or 
FERC Form 1; or 
 
G. Any other information that may reasonably have substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
iv. Informal Challenges and Formal Challenges may address whether costs are 
recorded consistent with the Fundamental Predicates in these Protocols and FERC’s policies and regulations, 
how the costs charged by DP&L’s centralized services company are recorded on DP&L’s books in  
accordance with Instruction 14 of the Uniform System of Accounts, the amounts of such centralized service 
company costs, and whether the costs are properly includable in transmission rates.  
v.  With respect to an issue that had previously been adjudicated by the Commission in  
a Formal Challenge proceeding that was not resolved by settlement, the principles of stare decisis and res 
judicata shall apply and, therefore, if a subsequent Formal Challenge is made with respect to such issue, DP&L 
may move to dismiss on such grounds, the challenging party or other Interested Parties may contest whether 
such principles apply, and the Commission shall have the discretion to determine whether the Formal 
Challenge may proceed or should be dismissed.  
 
vi.  Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if any) created  
for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of the action or inaction;  
 
vii.  State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing Commission  
proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the filing party is a party, and if so, provide an 
explanation why timely resolution cannot be achieved in that forum;  
viii. State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for stay or 
extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
ix. Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in possession 
of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, including, but not limited to, contracts and affidavits; and 
 
x. State whether the filing party utilized the Informal Challenge procedures described 
in these Protocols to dispute the action or inaction raised by the Formal Challenge, and, if not, describe why 
not. 
d.  Any person filing a Formal Challenge must serve a copy of the Formal Challenge on DP&L. 
Service to DP&L must be simultaneous with filing at the Commission.  Simultaneous service can be  
accomplished by electronic mail in accordance with § 385.2010(f)(3), facsimile, express delivery, or  
messenger.  The party filing the Formal Challenge shall serve the individual listed as the contact person on 
DP&L’s Informational Filing required under Section 3 of these Protocols.  
 
e.  DP&L will cause to be posted on the PJM website all Informal Challenges from Interested 
Parties and DP&L’s response(s) to such Informal Challenges; except, however, if Informal Challenges or 
responses to Informal Challenges include material deemed by DP&L to be confidential information, such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 18 
information will not be publicly posted but will be made available to requesting parties pursuant to a  
confidentiality agreement to be executed by DP&L and the requesting party.  
 
f.  Any changes or adjustments to the Annual True-Up Adjustment or Annual Update resulting  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 19 
 
 
 
 
 
from the information exchange and Informal Challenge processes agreed to by DP&L on or before  
December 1 will be reflected in the Annual Update for the upcoming Rate Year.  Any changes or  
adjustments agreed to by DP&L after December 1 will be reflected in the following year’s Annual True-Up 
Adjustment.  
 
g.  If DP&L and a challenging party have not resolved an Informal Challenge to an Annual  
Update within 60 days after receipt of DP&L’s written response to the Informal Challenge (May 1) or, if  
applicable, its responses to questions regarding its written response, the challenging party shall have the  
right to make a Formal Challenge with the FERC, which shall be served on DP&L on the date of such filing  
as specified in Section 7.d. above.  However, there shall be no need to make a Formal Challenge or to await  
conclusion of the time periods in this Section 7 if the FERC already has initiated sua sponte a proceeding to  
consider the Annual Update.  A Formal Challenge shall be filed in the same docket as DP&L’s  
informational filing discussed in Section 3 of these Protocols.  DP&L shall respond to the Formal Challenge  
by the deadline established by FERC.  A party may not pursue a Formal Challenge if that party did not  
submit an Informal Challenge on at least one issue during the applicable Review Period.  
h.  In any proceeding initiated by FERC concerning the Annual True-Up Adjustment or Annual 
Update or in response to a Formal Challenge, DP&L shall bear the burden, consistent with FPA section 205, of 
proving that it has correctly applied the terms of the Formula Rate consistent with these Protocols, and that it 
followed the applicable requirements and procedures in these Protocols.  Nothing herein is intended to alter the 
burdens applied by FERC with respect to prudence challenges.  
 
i.  In the event an error, as that term is used in Section 6.a.iv., is identified in an Annual True- 
Up Adjustment  or Annual Update and such error was present in prior Annual True-Up Adjustments or  
Annual Updates, an Interested Party may request a FERC order making any remedy retroactive to the first  
Formula Rate filing in which such error occurred.  DP&L retains all rights to oppose such a request.  
j.  Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any way  
the right of DP&L to file unilaterally, pursuant to FPA section 205 and the regulations thereunder, to change  
the Formula Rate or any of its inputs (including, but not limited to, rate of return and transmission incentive  
rate treatment), or to replace the Formula Rate with a stated rate, or the right of any Interested Party to  
request such changes pursuant to FPA section 206 and the Commission’s regulations thereunder.  
k.  No Interested Party shall seek to modify the Formula Rate under the Challenge Procedures set 
forth in these Protocols, and the Annual True-Up Adjustment and Annual Update shall not be subject to 
challenge by anyone for the purpose of modifying the Formula Rate.  Any modifications to the Formula Rate 
will require, as applicable, an FPA section 205 or section 206 filing.  
l.  Any Interested Party seeking changes to the application of the Formula Rate due to a change in 
the Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 shall first raise the matter with DP&L in  
accordance with this Section 7 before pursuing a Formal Challenge.  
Section 8 Changes to Annual Informational Filings 
Any changes to the data inputs as a result of revisions to DP&L’s FERC Form 1 or as a result of any FERC 
proceeding to consider the Annual True-up Adjustment or as a result of the procedures set forth herein shall be 
incorporated into the Formula Rate (with interest determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 38.19a) in  
the Annual Update for the next effective Rate Year. This approach shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 20 
adjustments or any refunds or surcharges. However, actual refunds or surcharges (with interest determined in 
accordance with 18 C.F.R. §38.19a) for the then current Rate Year shall be made if the Formula Rate is  
replaced by a stated rate by DP&L.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-15B - Dayton Power & Light 
Effective Date: 5/3/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1150-002 - Page 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment A  
 
The Dayton Power and Light Company  
Annual Transmission Formula Rate Process  
    
Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May 
 
Publication Date - Annual True-up (ATU) Informationl Filing and Stakeholder Review Period begins  
Jun 15  
Posting Date - Annual Update - Projected Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement and ATU  
Oct 1  
Stakeholder Review Meeting held  
Oct 15 Oct 30 
Due date for any changes to Annual Update  
Nov 30  
Deadline for Information Requests  
Dec 1  
Post changes to Annual Update, including any changes to Network Service Peak Load  
Dec 15  
Responses to all Information Requests due  
Dec 20  
2021 Rates effective  
Jan 1  
Deadline for Informal Challenges  
Jan 31  
Deadline for Formal 
MChallenges 
a  
y  
1  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-16 - Virginia Electric 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 1 
