ATTACHMENT H-17B 
 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
 
Section 1 Annual Updates 
 
a. The Annual Transmission Revenue Requirements applicable under Attachment H 
and the Network Integration Transmission Service and Point-to-Point rates 
derived therefrom shall be applicable to services on and after June 1 of a given 
calendar year through May 31 of the subsequent calendar year (the “Rate Year”).  
 
b. On or before May 15 of each year, Duquesne shall recalculate its Annual 
Transmission Revenue Requirements, producing the “Annual Update” for the 
upcoming Rate Year, and post such Annual Update on PJM’s Internet website via 
a link to the Transmission Services page or a similar successor page.  In addition, 
Duquesne shall submit such Annual Update as an informational filing with the 
FERC. 
 
c. If the date for making the Annual Update posting/filing should fall on a weekend 
or a holiday recognized by the FERC, then the posting/filing shall be due on the 
next business day.   
 
d. The date on which the last of the events listed in Section 1.b or 1.c occurs shall be 
that year’s “Publication Date. “ 
 
e. Upon written request for a particular year’s Annual Update by any wholesale 
customer, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission or the Pennsylvania Office 
of Consumer Advocate (collectively “Interested Parties”), Duquesne will 
promptly make available to such entity and/or a consultant designated by it, a 
“workable” Excel file containing that year’s Annual Update data.   
 
f. The Annual Update for the Rate Year:   
 
(i) shall, to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, be based upon 
Duquesne’s FERC Form No. 1 data for the most recent calendar year, 
and to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, be based upon the books 
and records of Duquesne consistent with FERC accounting policies;  
 
(ii) shall, as and to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, provide 
supporting documentation for data not otherwise available in the FERC 
Form No. 1 that are used in the Formula Rate;1 
 
(iii) shall provide notice of material changes in Duquesne’s accounting 
policies and practices from those in effect for the calendar year upon 
which the immediately preceding Annual Update was based (“Material 
Accounting Changes”); 2 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-17B - Duquesne 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 2 
(iv) shall be subject to challenge and review only in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in this0 Attachment H-17B with respect to the 
accuracy of data and the consistency with the Formula of the charges 
shown in the Annual Update; 
 
(v) shall be subject to review with respect to the prudence of any new costs 
and expenditures included for recovery in the Annual Update, provided, 
however, that the initial burden to raise a substantial doubt as to the 
prudence of any new expenditure shall be upon the Interested Party 
raising the challenge, and 
 
(vi) shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be subject to 
challenge by seeking to modify the Formula Rate (i.e., all such 
modifications to the Formula Rate — including return on equity — will 
require, as applicable, a Federal Power Act Section 205 or Section 206 
filing).  
 
g. Formula Rate inputs (i) rate of return on common equity; (ii) “Post-Employment 
Benefits other than Pension” pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other 
Than Pensions (“PBOP”) charges, (iii) extraordinary property losses, and (iv) 
depreciation and/or amortizations shall be stated values to be used in the rate 
formula until changed pursuant to an FPA Section 205 or 206 filing; provided, 
however, that notwithstanding the foregoing limitations, (A) any changes in 
_______________ 
1 It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations described 
therein, that each input to the Formula Rate will be either taken directly from the FERC Form No. 1 or 
reconcilable to the FERC Form No. 1 by the application of clearly identified and supported information.  
Where the reconciliation is provided through a worksheet included in the filed Formula Rate template, the 
inputs to the worksheet must meet this transparency standard, and doing so will satisfy this transparency 
requirement for the amounts that are output from the worksheet and input to the main body of the Formula 
Rate.   
2 Such notice may incorporate by reference applicable disclosure statements filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-17B - Duquesne 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 3 
PBOP charges that do not exceed an impact on the formula output Network Integration 
Transmission Service Rate for Duquesne of $0.05 per kW per month as compared to the 
immediately preceding Annual Update may be included in an Annual Update without 
such a filing, (B) any changes in PBOP charges that do not exceed the $0.05 per kW per 
month threshold will be supported by Duquesne in its annual informational filing 
consistent with the applicable accounting standards, and (C) Duquesne may make a 
limited Section 205 filing to change its depreciation rates in which the sole issue for 
examination shall be whether such proposed new depreciation rates are just and 
reasonable. 
 
Section 2 Construction Work in Progress 
 
a. Accounting.  For each incentive transmission project listed on Attachment 7 
Duquesne shall use the following accounting procedures to ensure that it does not 
recovre an Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (“AFUDC”) to the 
extent that it has been authorized by a Commission order to include 100 percent 
of Construction Work in Progress (“CWIP”) in transmission rate base. 
 
(i) Duquesne shall assign each authorized incentive transmission project a 
unique Funding Project Number (“FPN”) for internal cost tracking 
purposes. 
(ii) Duquesne shall record actual construction costs to each FPN through work 
orders that are coded to correspond to the FPN for each incentive 
transmission project.  Such work orders shall be segregated from work 
orders for non-incentive transmission projects for which the Commission 
has not authorized Duquesne to include any portion of CWIP in rate base. 
(iii) For each incentive transmission project, Duquesne shall prepare monthly 
work order summaries of costs incurred under the associated FPN.  These 
summaries shall show monthly additions to CWIP and plant in service and 
shall correspond to amounts recorded in Duquesne’s FERC Form No. 1.  
Duquesne shall use these summaries as data inputs into the Annual Update 
calculated on Attachment 6.  Duquesne shall make such work order 
summaries available upon request under the review of procedures of 
Section 3. 
(iv) When an incentive transmission project, or portion thereof, is placed into 
service, Duquesne shall deduct from total CWIP the accumulated charges 
for work orders under the FPN for that project, or portion thereof.  The 
purpose of this control process is to ensure that expenditures are not 
double counted as both CWIP and as additions to plant 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-17B - Duquesne 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 4 
(v) For incentive transmission projects, effective on January 1, 2006, 
Duquesne shall not record AFUDC to be applied to CWIP.  Duquesne 
shall, however, include AFUDC for cumulative monthly CWIP charges 
from August 8, 2005, through December 31, 2005. 
(vi) For non-incentive transmission projects, Duquesne shall record AFUDC to 
be applied to CWIP and capitalized when the project is placed into 
service. 
b. Annual Reporting.  For each incentive project listed on Attachment 7 for which 
the Commission has authorized Duquesns to include any portion of CWIP in 
transmission rate base, Duquesne shall file a report with the Commission at the 
time of Duquesne’s Annual Update that shall include the following information 
concerning each such project: 
(i) the actual amount of CWIP recorded for each project; 
(ii) any amounts recorded in related FERC accounts or subaccounts, such as 
AFUDC and regulatory liability; 
(iii) the resulting effect on the CWIP revenue requirement, 
(iv) a statement of the current status of each project; and 
(v) the estimated in-service date for each project. 
 
Section 3 Annual Review Procedures 
 
 Each Annual Update shall be subject to the following review procedures (“Annual 
Review Procedures”): 
 
a. Interested Parties shall have up to one hundred fifty (150) days after the 
Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of 
Duquesne) to review the calculations (“Review Period”) and to notify Duquesne 
in writing of any specific challenges, including challenges related to Material 
Accounting Changes, to the application of the Formula Rate (“Preliminary 
Challenge”). 
 
b. Interested Parties shall have up to one hundred twenty (120) days after each 
annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent 
of Duquesne) to serve reasonable information requests on Duquesne; provided, 
however, that the potentially Interested Parties shall make a good faith effort to 
submit consolidated sets of information requests that limit the number and overlap 
of questions to the maximum extent practicable.  Such information requests shall 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-17B - Duquesne 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 5 
be limited to what is necessary to determine if Duquesne has properly applied the 
Formula Rate and the procedures in this Attachment H-17B, and to determine the 
accuracy of data and the consistency with the Formula Rate of the charges shown 
in the Annual Update as well as the prudence of the new costs and expenditures 
included for recovery in the annual update.  In addition, such information requests 
shall not solicit information concerning costs or allocations where the costs or 
allocation method have been determined by FERC or in the context of other 
Annual Updates, except that such information requests shall be permitted if they 
seek to determine if there has been a material change in circumstances.   
 
c. Duquesne shall make a good faith effort to respond to information requests 
pertaining to the Annual Update within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of 
such requests.  Duquesne may give reasonable priority to responding to requests 
that satisfy the practicable coordination and consolidation provision of Section 
2.b. above.  
 
d. Preliminary or Formal Challenges related to Material Accounting Changes are not 
intended to serve as a means of pursuing other objections to the Formula Rate.  
Failure to make a Preliminary Challenge with respect to a Material Accounting 
Change in an Annual Update shall act as a bar with respect to that Annual Update 
but shall not bar a subsequent Preliminary Challenge related to a subsequent 
Annual Update to the extent such Material Accounting Change affects the 
subsequent Annual Update.   
 
e. Preliminary or Formal Challenges related to Material Accounting Changes shall 
be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in Section 4, except that 
Section 4.c. shall not apply.  In any proceeding initiated to address a Preliminary 
or Formal Challenge or sua sponte by the FERC, a party or parties (other than 
Duquesne) seeking to modify the Formula Rate in any respect shall bear the 
burden of proving that the Formula Rate is no longer just and reasonable without 
such modification and that the proposed modification is just, reasonable and 
consistent with the original intent of the Formula Rate and the procedures in this 
Attachment H-17B; provided, however, that in any such proceeding, in 
determining whether the Formula Rate is no longer just and reasonable without 
modification to reflect a Material Accounting Change and whether the proposed 
modification is just and reasonable, no offsets unrelated to the applicable Material 
Accounting Changes may be considered.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-17B - Duquesne 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 6 
Section 4 Resolution of Challenges 
a. If Duquesne and any Interested Party(ies) have not resolved any Preliminary 
Challenge to the Annual Update within twenty-one (21) days after the Review 
Period, an Interested Party shall have an additional twenty-one (21) days (unless 
such period is extended with the written consent of Duquesne to continue efforts 
to resolve the Preliminary Challenge) to make a Formal Challenge with the 
FERC, pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 385.206, which shall be served on Duquesne by 
electronic service on the date of such filing.  However, there shall be no need to 
make a Formal Challenge or to await conclusion of the time periods in Section 2 
if the FERC already has initiated a proceeding to consider the Annual Update.  A 
party’s Formal Challenge may not raise any issue that was not the subject of that 
party’s Preliminary Challenge during the applicable Review Period.  
b. Any response by Duquesne to a Formal Challenge must be submitted to the FERC 
within twenty (20) days of the date of the filing of the Formal Challenge, and 
shall be served on the filing party(ies) by electronic service on the date of such 
filing.  
c. Except as provided in Sections 1.f(v) and 3.e, in any proceeding initiated by the 
FERC concerning the Annual Update or in response to a Formal Challenge, 
Duquesne shall bear the burden of proving that it has reasonably applied the terms 
of the Formula Rate, and the applicable procedures in these Formula Rate 
Implementation Protocols, in that year’s Annual Update.  
d. Subject to judicial review of FERC orders, each Annual Update shall become 
final and no longer subject to challenge pursuant to these Annual Review 
Protocols or by any other means by the FERC or any other entity on the later to 
occur of (i) passage of the twenty-one (21) day period (or extended period, if 
applicable) for making a Formal Challenge if no such challenge has been made 
and the FERC has not initiated a proceeding to consider the Annual Update, or (ii) 
a final FERC order issued in response to a Formal Challenge or a proceeding 
initiated by the FERC to consider the Annual Update.   
e. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in 
any way the right of Duquesne to file unilaterally, pursuant to Section 205 of the 
Federal Power Act and the regulations thereunder, changes to the Formula Rate or 
any of its inputs (including, but not limited to, rate of return and Transmission 
Incentive Mechanisms) or the right of any other party to request such changes 
pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal Power Act and the regulations thereunder.  
f. Subject to Section 3.e above, it is recognized that resolution of Formal Challenges 
concerning Material Accounting Changes may necessitate adjustments to the 
Formula Rate input data for the applicable Annual Update or changes to the rate 
formula to achieve a just and reasonable end result consistent with the intent of 
the Formula Rate.  
 
Section 5 Changes to Annual Informational Filings 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-17B - Duquesne 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 7 
Any changes to the data inputs, including but not limited to revisions to Duquesne’s FERC Form 
No. 1, or as the result of any FERC proceeding to consider the Annual Update, or as a result of 
the procedures set forth herein, shall be incorporated into the Formula Rate and the charges 
produced by the Formula Rate (with interest determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a) 
in the Annual Update for the next effective Rate Period.  This reconciliation mechanism shall 
apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments and any refunds or surcharges.  However, actual 
refunds or surcharges (with interest determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a) for the 
then current rate year shall be made in the event that the Formula Rate is replaced by a stated rate 
for Duquesne.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-17C - Duquesne - Monthly Deferred 
Effective Date: 4/2/2021 - Docket #: ER21-1012-000 - Page 1 
 
