ATTACHMENT C 
 
Methodology To Assess Available Transfer Capability 
 
The Transmission Provider will be solely responsible for determinations of Available Transfer 
Capability (ATC).  The Transmission Provider will post firm and non-firm ATC projections on 
the OASIS for interfaces between neighboring Balancing Authorities and the PJM Region, and 
other path locations of significant commercial interest will be added as appropriate. 
 
ATC of a particular path is an approximate indication of the anticipated transmission transfer 
capability remaining on the transmission network that could be scheduled for further commercial 
activity relative to the designated path under the conditions studied.  Specific study of conditions, 
including source and sink of generation and load, is required before firm transmission service 
commitments can be made. 
 
Transfer capability of the transmission network is limited by physical and electrical 
characteristics of the system including thermal equipment loading, voltage, and stability 
considerations and provisions of coordination agreements.  Transfer capability is evaluated based 
on base system loading and an assessment of critical contingencies on the transmission system.  
The critical contingencies will be defined as appropriate.  The Transmission Provider’s 
calculation of transfer capability will be consistent with the principles in the NERC standards.  
These calculations will be performed through a combination of planning and operational 
analyses, employing both Energy Management System real-time functionality and off-line 
analytical tools as appropriate.  Firm and non-firm ATC will be determined consistent with 
NERC standards, taking into account the Transmission Reliability Margin (TRM), Existing 
Transmission Commitments (ETC) and Capacity Benefit Margin (CBM) (see below) in order to 
preserve the emergency capability of the PJM Region to serve load serving entities.  Firm ATC 
on any path will be limited to assure that emergency import capability will be available to 
Network Customers when needed through the reservation of capacity benefit margin, equivalent 
to a firm point-to-point transmission service reservation for delivery from systems outside of the 
PJM Region to serve the load serving entities within such region. 
 
Determination of ATC requires that base system conditions be identified and modeled for the 
period being analyzed.  These conditions include projected demand, anticipated generation 
availability, anticipated transmission system facility availability, expected energy transactions, 
and information about neighboring regions that affect the transfer capability of the PJM Region.  
For hourly through monthly calculations, these conditions are based on the Transmission 
Provider’s operational assessments of load trends, unit commitment profiles, maintenance 
schedules and ETC.  Long-term calculations are based on planning loads, expected maintenance 
schedules, typical generation patterns, and ETC. 
 
Any dispute regarding a determination of ATC by the Transmission Provider, or regarding the 
data used by the Transmission Provider in such a determination, shall be resolved pursuant to the 
dispute resolution procedures of Tariff, Part I, section 12. 
 
 
ATC and AFC Calculations Using Flowgate Methodology  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 2 
 
The Available Flowgate Capability (AFC) calculation methodology used by the Transmission 
Provider is the Flowgate Methodology as described in the Available Transfer Capability 
Implementation Document (ATCID).  The ATCID is included on the PJM OASIS page under 
ATC information.  The Flowgate Methodology uses analytical tools to examine critical 
flowgates over the PJM Region and adjacent regions (per seams agreements) and converts AFC 
values into particular path ATC values, which are posted on the PJM OASIS.  For Firm and 
Non-firm Transmission Service ATC calculations, the Transmission Provider shall account for 
Postbacks of redirected services, unscheduled service, and counterflows.  PJM critical flowgates 
may include, but are not limited to thermal flowgates, voltage/stability flowgates, coordinated 
flowgates, and reciprocal coordinated flowgates. 
 
Overview and Process Flow Diagram 
 
The process for the Transmission Provider’s AFC/ATC calculation is illustrated in the Exhibit 1 
flow diagram.  The text that follows describes the inputs, outputs and processes performed within 
each of the sub-processes contained in Exhibit 1. The Transmission Provider calculates Firm and 
Non-firm Transmission Service ATC for the scheduling horizon (same day and real-time), 
operating horizon (day ahead and pre-schedule), and planning horizon (beyond the operating 
horizon). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 3 
Exhibit 1 
 
AFC Flowgate Methodology 
 
Determining AFC and ATC using the Flowgate Methodology is a multi-step integrated process 
which is described in detail in the ATCID.  PJM uses the following mathematical algorithms to 
calculate AFC and ATC.  The actual detailed AFC and ATC algorithms are available on the PJM 
OASIS website at the following link:   
 
 ftp://ftp.pjm.com/oasis/afc-atc-algorithms.pdf 
 
 AFC = flowgate rating – ETC – TRM – CBM + Postbacks + counterflows. 
 
The AFC Calculation is the amount of unused transfer capability on a flowgate after accounting 
for base case conditions represented by solved base case flows and applying the impacts of non-
base case commitments and flowgate specific margins.  
 
         ATC = Minimum{AFC1 / Transfer Response Factor, …,AFCn / Transfer Response Factor} 
 
AFC/ATC Process Flow Diagram
Transmission Outages
Generation Outages
Load Forecast 
PJM
PJM
ATC/AFC
NERC Web Site
NEIGHBORING 
OASIS NODES
Security Data Exchange 
(SDX)
Data Miner
 AFC from Coordinated 
Entities
Tag Data
 Flow Gates
 & 
AFC Values
Interregional Distribution 
Calculator
 (IDC)
NERCTag Data
Multi Regional Modeling 
Working Group
 (MMWG) Ancillary Files
Transmission 
Owner
Generation 
Owner
OASIS
OASIS
OASIS
OASIS
OASIS
Transmission Outages
Generation Outages
Load Forecast
AFC 
Base 
Case 
Model 
Builder
Network Model
Base 
Case
AFC to ATC 
Converter
AFC
&
Flow gates
Transmission and Generation 
Interdependencies
ATC
AFC
&
Flow gates
OASIS
Reservations
PJM 
OASIS
AFC 
Calculation

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 4 
The AFC to ATC converter translates the flowgate AFC values into path ATC values for posting 
to the OASIS.  The ATC calculation is the minimum AFC of a set of limiting flowgates divided 
by the transfer response factor or distribution factor on the respective flowgate for a specific 
Point of Receipt/Point of Delivery pair.  The Available Share of Total Flowgate Capability 
(ASTFC) as prescribed by a congestion management process agreement (e.g., the CMP included 
in the Joint Operating Agreement between the Midwest Independent Transmission System 
Operator, Inc. and PJM) may be less than the calculated AFC.  The posted AFC is set by the 
ASTFC or the calculated AFC, whichever is most limiting. 
 
 An overview of the major components of this process is described below: 
 
• The AFC to ATC converter process utilizes the coordination entity calculated AFC 
values for non-PJM flowgates.  AFC values for coordination entity flowgates calculated 
by the coordination entity overwrite values that the Transmission Provider’s process 
determines for these Flowgates.   
 
• The Transmission Provider supplies coordination entities with similar values for PJM 
Flowgates for inclusion in the coordination entity’s AFC process. 
 
• Values provided to the OASIS from the AFC/ATC process are continually updated on the 
OASIS to reflect the reservations or schedules that were accepted or confirmed since the 
last complete calculation cycle.  
 
Data Miner 
 
Transmission Provider, through data miner process, gathers data from the Transmission Provider 
and external sources to use as inputs to the AFC/ATC process.  These external sources are 
included in the Transmission Provider’s ATCID. 
 
Model Builder 
 
The Transmission Provider develops and maintains seasonal models for the next 18 months.  
These seasonal models will be developed from the NERC MMWG case library modified for any 
known model updates.  The Transmission Provider’s AFC/ATC calculations are based on these 
seasonal models.  The model builder portion of the AFC/ATC engine modifies these seasonal 
base cases to reflect anticipated conditions such as forecasted load levels, outages, generation 
dispatch files, and base case transfers (reservations and/or schedules as appropriate) for the 
AFC/ATC time horizon.  The base case models are refined to reflect transmission outages and 
generation unavailability as provided by the NERC SDX data.  Load levels are appropriately 
adjusted to reflect the modeled conditions using the NERC SDX data.  Relevant balancing 
authorities external to the PJM footprint will be modeled at the appropriate load level with the 
generation scaled to match loads. 
 
The Transmission Provider develops monthly, weekly, daily, and hourly AFC cases.  These 
cases serve as the base case models for the AFC calculation for a specific period.  Solved base 
case models for monthly, weekly, daily, and hourly time frames are developed multiple times 
each day consistent with NERC standards. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 5 
 
The Transmission Provider models some flowgates without contingencies and some with 
contingencies. 
 
The flowgates modeled without contingencies are the Power Transfer Distribution Factor 
(PTDF) flowgates, which are flowgates where a single facility or multiple transmission facilities 
are monitored for a limiting condition.  The limiting condition can be due to thermal loading 
above 100% of the normal rating or due to a thermal rating above 100% of the surrogate rating 
representing an equivalent voltage or stability limit.   
 
The flowgates modeled with contingencies are the Outage Transfer Distribution Factor (OTDF) 
flowgates, which are flowgates where a single facility or multiple transmission facilities are 
monitored for a limiting condition after a contingency event has been simulated to have occurred 
(one or multiple facilities for the loss of another facility or facilities).  The limiting condition 
monitored can be due to thermal loading above 100% of the 4 hour emergency rating.   
 
For flowgates owned by other parties, Transmission Provider uses the limit provided by that 
party, subject to the terms of the AFC Coordination and Congestion Management Process 
sections of the applicable agreements between Transmission Provider and the other parties. 
 
AFC Calculation 
 
The Transmission Provider’s AFC/ATC calculation implements the following principles for firm 
and non-firm ATC calculations: (1) for firm ATC calculations, the Transmission Provider shall 
account only for firm commitments; (2) for non-firm ATC calculations, the Transmission 
Provider shall account for both firm and non-firm commitments.  Reservations from the PJM and 
non-PJM OASIS sites are utilized.  Flow based analysis will be used to determine and update 
flowgate loadings for reservations not modeled in the base case and to determine response 
factors on each flowgate.  Flowgate loadings and response factors will be used to determine the 
individual path ATC values.   
 
• The Transmission Provider recognizes physical network limitations (i.e., flowgates) on 
PJM and appropriate non-PJM systems in the determination of the path ATC values. 
 
• AFC values received from coordination entites are calculated by those entities according 
to their AFC methodology. 
 
AFC to ATC Conversion 
 
To calculate ATC, which represents a transfer capability in MW available for sale between a 
specific Point of Delivery and Point of Receipt, the Transmission Provider will first calculate an 
AFC for each flowgate.  An AFC is defined as follows: 
 
• The available capability in MW on a flowgate, determined by the transmission provider, 
that is available for further commercial activity.   The available capability determined 
will be dependent on the generation, loads and transmission configuration assumed for 
the time period studied.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 6 
 
• The AFC accounts for thermal, voltage and stability limits under both pre and post 
contingency conditions, along with any existing transmission commitments, TRM and 
CBM. 
 
• The AFC is used to determine the amount of MWs that can be transferred between a 
specific set of source and sink points.  An AFC is skipped using on-the-path logic if the 
flowgate owner is either the Point of Receipt or Point of Delivery on the path being 
calculated.  The non-firm ATC calculation for the willing-to-pay congestion product on 
the OASIS includes only external flowgates.  
 
• Counterflow and Postbacks are considered in the calculation of AFC.    
 
Coordination with Neighboring Systems 
 
The Transmission Provider exchanges data with neighboring systems.  The Transmission 
Provider provides transmission reservations, AFC values for Transmission Provider flowgates, 
and other data.  This coordination results in comparable inputs to the AFC calculations.  The 
Transmission Provider utilizes similar information provided by coordinating entities. 
 
Treatment of Existing Transmission Commitments 
 
ETC is committed use of the transmission system, including: (1) Transmission Provider’s 
reservations in accepted or confirmed status; (2) native load commitments; Network Integration 
Transmission Service; (3) grandfathered transmission rights; (4) Firm Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service reservations; and if required (5) rollover rights associated with long-term 
firm service (Point-To-Point Transmission Service and Network Integration Service or 
grandfathered transmission rights). Existing commitments modeled in the load flow base cases 
determine the initial flows on the facilities. To the extent there are existing transactions that 
qualify for rollover rights, they are incorporated in the committed usage. 
 
PJM OASIS reservations that are withdrawn, retracted (not confirmed) or annulled are removed 
from the ETC and any resulting changes to ATC are incorporated in the next OASIS posting of 
ATC calculated values.  The Transmission Provider’s firm and non-firm ATC calculations also 
account for permanently redirected services, unscheduled service, and counterflows.  In the 
scheduling and operating horizons, reservation impacts are substituted with scheduled impacts.  
That is, the reservation impact component of ETC is set to zero and the schedule impacts 
component of ATC is used.  In the planning horizon, reservation impacts are used because 
requests to schedule are often not received in this horizon.  That is, the reservation impact 
component of ETC is set based on Transmission Service Requests for which Transmission 
Provider has committed to provide service and the schedule impacts component of ATC is set to 
zero. Additional information is included on this subject in the Transmission Provider’s ATCID. 
 
External Flowgates 
 
Flowgates are used in the AFC and ATC calculations.  PJM adds or eliminates external 
flowgates based on the Joint Operating Agreement Between the Midwest Independent 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 7 
Transmission System Operator, Inc. And PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“Midwest ISO JOA”, 
Article V (FERC Electric Tariff, First Revised Rate Schedule No. 38, see, Section 4.2 – Cost of 
Data and Information Exchange up to and including Section 5.1.12 – Coordination of 
Transmission Reliability Margin Values); Joint Operating Agreement Among And Between PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., And Progress Energy Carolinas (“PEC JOA”), Article Five (FERC 
Electric Tariff, First Revised Rate Schedule No. 50, see, Article 9 – Coordinated Transmission 
Planning Studies up to and including Article 12 – Managing Parallels Flow on the VACAR/PJM 
Interface ); and Joint Reliability Coordination Agreement Among And Between PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., Tennessee Valley Authority, and Louisville Gas and Electric Company 
and Kentucky Utilities (“JRCA”), Article Five.  PJM adds or eliminates internal flowgates, at 
least annually, based on a review of historic operating constraints including flowgates that have 
been in Transmission Loading Relief (TLR) and other operating conditions as deemed 
appropriate.  
 
Internal Flowgates 
 
Transmission Provider determines base case flows using the AFC engine.  Transmission 
Provider runs the AFC engine hourly (except in the case of a technical error, system error or 
planned system outage).  The base run includes native and network load (from the load forecast), 
transmission service that is expected to be scheduled (grandfathered, point-to-point and imports 
from designated Network Resources), outages and load forecast.  Base case flow inputs are 
updated at least once per day.  In the scheduling and operating horizons, Transmission Provider 
updates scheduled transmission service for each run of the AFC engine.  Transmission Provider 
models all grandfathered agreements and other non-Tariff use of the transmission system as firm 
service or load.  Transmission Provider does not segregate non-Tariff service in the AFC 
calculation.  
 
On an annual basis (or sooner if required by NERC MOD Standards), PJM shall review internal 
flowgates using the following methodology: 
 
a. The Transmission Provider shall include all flowgates in its footprint that have initiated a 
TLR event in the 12 months prior to the annual review. 
 
b. The Transmission Provider shall include applicable System Operating Limit (SOL) and 
Interconnection Reliability Operating Limits (IROL) flowgates per NERC TOP-002 R-12 
standards (or successor).  Any facility that PJM monitors that is not considered an IROL facility 
is consider a SOL.  Applicable SOL and IROL flowgates shall include at a minimum those 
flowgates identified in the TRM process described in this Attachment C AFC process. 
 
c. The Transmission Provider shall add or remove flowgates to its AFC process in 
accordance with NERC MOD standards. 
 
The Transmission Provider may eliminate flowgates that do not continue to meet the criteria 
above. 
 
A reservation with rollover rights is reflected in ETC in the amount of transmission service 
reserved as if the customer has exercised its rollover right.  If the deadline for a customer to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 8 
exercise its rollover right for a given reservation has passed, and the customer did not exercise its 
rollover right, the amount associated with the unexercised rollover right no longer is included in 
the amount of reservations. 
 
Treatment of Capacity Benefit Margin 
 
Explanation of CBM 
 
Transmission Provider uses the NERC approved definition of CBM, which is the amount of firm 
transmission transfer capability preserved by Transmission Provider for Load-Serving Entities 
(LSEs), whose loads are located on that Transmission Provider’s system, to enable access by the 
LSEs to generation from interconnected systems to meet generation reliability requirements.  
The transmission transfer capability preserved as CBM is intended to be used by an LSE only in 
times of emergency generation deficiencies.  Additional information is included in the 
Transmission Provider’s Capacity Benefit Margin Implementation Document (CBMID) posted 
on the PJM OASIS page under ATC Information. 
 
The CBM is a reliability margin applied to the flowgate in the AFC Calculation.  CBM is only 
applied to firm ATC calculations where the PJM Region is the delivery point.  The Transmission 
Provider consistently applies CBM in planning and operations and does not double count for this 
reliability margin (i.e., this margin is not included in TRM). For non-PJM flowgates, the 
Transmission Provider uses the CBM values provided by coordination entities for the AFC 
calculation on these flowgates.   
 
Through the sharing of installed generating capacity via transmission interconnections, systems 
have relied on transmission import capability to reduce their required installed generating 
capacity necessary to provide reliable service to Network Customers.  In order to ensure that 
PJM has the ability to import external generation for the purpose of serving Network Customers, 
a portion of the transfer capability will be set aside.  CBM is set aside on paths based on the 
expected delivery of energy from entities with which the Transmission Provider has emergency 
energy agreements at the time of the Transmission Provider’s forecast peak load.  This 
capability, known as the Capacity Benefit Margin, is a reflection of the mutual benefit of 
interconnected operations and reservation of this margin allows a system to reduce its installed 
generating capacity below that which may have otherwise been required if transmission 
interconnections did not exist. 
 
The CBM is determined through the auspicious of the Reliability Assurance Agreement Among 
Load Serving Entities in the PJM Region (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 44) (RAA).  
Capitalized terms in this section that are not defined in this section or Tariff, Part I, section 1 are 
defined in the RAA.   
 
CBM is determined through the Transmission Planning Evaluation of Import Capability.  This 
evaluation establishes the amount of emergency power that can be reliably transferred to the PJM 
Region from adjacent regions in the event of a PJM Region generation capacity deficiency.  To 
determine the import transfer limit, several emergency scenarios are replicated and the limit 
represents a normalization of expected values.  This transfer limit determines the PJM Region tie 
benefit that is subsequently used in calculating the PJM Region reserve requirement.  An annual 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 9 
recalculation of the PJM Region import capability is not required, since the import capability far 
exceeds the CBM value specified in RAA, Schedule 4.   
 
CBM is a key input into the annual resource adequacy study performed by Transmission 
Provider.  The purpose of this study is to determine the PJM Region Installed Reserve Margin 
(IRM) required by the PJM Region to satisfy a one day in 10 year Loss of Load Expectation 
(LOLE).  Transmission Provider uses a probabilistic methodology to perform the resource 
adequacy study.  The study assumptions and results are subject to stakeholder review and 
comment.  The resulting IRM is expressed as a percentage of the forecasted annual peak load.   
 
The CBM assessment in the PJM Region is a unique method that is regionally specific because 
interface capability greatly exceeds CBM and because Transmission Provider centrally secures 
capacity for the PJM Region capacity market.   
 
Transmission Provider’s annual resource adequacy study is based on the probabilistic methods 
and criteria described in RAA, Schedule 11, the Operating Agreement and in the PJM Manuals.  
The resource adequacy study considers the following data and forecasts as necessary: 
 
1. Seasonal peak load forecasts for each Planning Period as calculated by Transmission 
Provider in accordance with the PJM Manuals reflecting (a) load forecasts with a 50 
percent probability of being too high or too low and (b) summer peak diversities 
determined by Transmission Provider from recent experience. 
 
2. Forecasts of aggregate seasonal load shape of the parties bound by the RAA which are 
consistent with forecast averages of 52 weekly peak loads prepared by Transmission 
Provider. 
 
3. Variability of loads within each week, due to weather, economic forecast uncertainty, and 
other recurring and random factors, as determined by Transmission Provider. 
 
4. Generating unit capability and types for every existing and proposed unit. 
 
5. Generator Forced Outage rates for existing mature generating units based on data 
submitted by generation owners, and for immature and proposed units based upon 
forecast rates related to unit types, capabilities and other pertinent characteristics. 
 
6. Generator Maintenance Outage factors and planned outage requirements based on 
forecasts and historical data submitted by the generation owners. 
 
7. Miscellaneous adjustments to capacity due to all causes, as determined by the Office of 
the Interconnection, based on forecasts submitted by the generation owners. 
 
8. The emergency capacity assistance available due to  interconnections of the PJM Region 
with other balancing authorities, as limited by the capacity benefit margin considered in 
the determination of available transfer capability and the probable availability of 
generation in excess of load requirements in such areas. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 10 
The value of the capacity benefit margin as filed as part of the RAA periodically is reviewed by 
Transmission Provider, in consultation with the Members Committee, and can be modified, if 
necessary, to balance external emergency capacity assistance and internal installed capacity 
reserves so as to minimize the total cost of the capacity reserves of the RAA participants, 
consistent with the Reliability Principles and Standards.   
 
Use of CBM in an Emergency 
 
The procedures for the use of CBM in an emergency, are described in Section 2 of PJM Manual 
13: Emergency Operations and are consistent with NERC and ReliabilityFirst Corporation’s 
Energy Emergency Alert defined in NERC’s EOP-002 standards.  Transmission Provider is 
responsible for declaring the existence of an emergency, and for directing the operations of the 
PJM Members as necessary to manage, alleviate, or end a capacity shortage.  Transmission 
Provider uses CBM in an emergency only on behalf of LSEs.  LSEs only use CBM through the 
Transmission Provider’s use of CBM on the LSEs behalf.  
 
Emergency use of CBM will be considered use of Network Integration Transmission Service and 
there will be no additional charge for such use.  Because an area is in an EEA 2 and 
Transmission Provider is taking steps to avoid shedding firm load, the use of CBM will have a 
NERC curtailment priority of 7 and will only be curtailed with other firm uses on a proportional 
basis.   
 
 Transmission Provider utilizes CBM on behalf of LSEs as described below. 
 
• Transmission Provider reviews the level of dependency on external transactions to serve 
the load in the PJM Region.  Transmission Provider shall log occurrences where CBM is 
implemented.  Transmission Provider shall notify external systems via the Reliability 
Coordinator Information System (defined in NERC EOP-002) or successor, a 
communications tool located at the NERC website to post potential or actual alert 
information, and Transmission Provider Members via the Transmission Provider’s 
website and issue appropriate NERC alert levels consistent with NERC EOP- 002.   
 
• CBM shall be used only after the following steps have been taken: all non-firm sales have 
been terminated, direct-control load management has been implemented, and customer 
interruptible demands have been interrupted.  Due to the nature of emergencies, 
Transmission Provider may skip or reorder the steps in accordance with Good Utility 
Practice.  CBM may be used to reestablish Operating Reserves. 
 
• CBM shall only be used if the PJM Region is experiencing a generation deficiency to 
increase generation in the PJM Region.  Transmission Provider shall use CBM, on behalf 
of an LSE, in order to exercise emergency energy agreements and to implement approved 
emergency energy bids.  Transmission Provider does not displace Non-Firm Point-To-
Point Transmission Service and/or secondary service, described in Tariff, Part III, section 
28.4, imports until the Transmission System is constrained.  If the Transmission System 
is constrained, CBM is used by Transmission Provider to displace such imports to 
provide more reliable service to load during capacity deficiencies.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 11 
• Unused CBM is included in the AFC/ATC calculations as Non-Firm Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service and/or secondary service, described in Tariff, Part III, section 28.4. 
 
 
Transmission Planning Evaluation of Import Capability 
 
The Transmission Provider conducted an Expected Import Capability Study (EICS) to evaluate 
the emergency import limits of the Transmission Provider under summer peak conditions.  That 
study showed the Transmission Provider’s import capability limit.  This limit is evaluated 
annually to assess whether the CBM value should be changed.  This evaluation is discussed in 
the annual PJM Reserve Requirement Study (RRS).  While the Transmission Provider can 
import more than the CBM value issued in the study, the additional import capability is reflected 
in ATC through the OASIS postings.  This allows the additional import capability to be used in 
the marketplace.  The reliability benefit of CBM saturates near the limit issued in the RRS.   
 
 
Treatment of Transmission Reliability Margin (TRM) 
 
The Transmission Reliability Margin (TRM) is a reliability margin applied to the flowgate in the 
AFC Calculation.  TRM accounts for the inherent uncertainty in system conditions and its 
associated effects on ATC calculations and the need for operating flexibility to ensure reliable 
system operation as system conditions change.    The Transmission Provider, following the 
NERC MOD-008-1, or successor Reliability Standard, calculates TRM for flowgates and may 
include uncertainty items using a process described in the Transmission Reliability Margin 
Implementation Document (TRMID).  The flowgates are identified following NERC MOD-030-
2, or successor Reliability Standard, through processes described in the ATCID.  Both the 
TRMID and ATCID are posted PJM OASIS page under ATC Information. 
 
 Transmission Provider calculates TRM using the following methodology:   
 
1. TRM shall be set using components of uncertainty identified in the TRMID for all 
PJM flowgates except as noted below.   
 
2. TLR and IROL.  TRM shall be considered using components of uncertainty 
identified in the TRMID for all flowgates that had TLR issued in the 12 months 
prior to Transmission Provider’s annual TRM re-evaluation and are 
Interconnection Reliability Operating Limits (IROLs) located in PJM Manual 37:  
Reliability Coordination.   
 
3.  Constrained Operations.  TRM may be set  using components of uncertainty 
identified in the TRMID for flowgates that were bound constrained in the 12 
months prior to Transmission Provider’s annual TRM re-evaluation.   
 
4. Current and Expected Operating Conditions.  During times of unusual circulation 
or other operating conditions, Transmission Provider may set a larger TRM than 
indicated in sections 1, 2, and 3 above.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 12 
5. Historic Conditions.  Notwithstanding sections 1, 2, and 3 above, Transmission 
Provider may set TRM on specific flowgates consistent with components of 
uncertainty identified in the TRMID and NERC MOD-008-1, or successor 
Reliability Standard.   
 
6. For non-PJM flowgates, the Transmission Provider uses the TRM values provided 
by coordination entities for the PJM AFC calculation on these flowgates in 
accordance with applicable agreement with such entities. 
 
Transmission Provider uses data from Transmission Provider’s Energy Management System 
(EMS) historic database, IROL and NERC’s Interchange Distribution Calculator (IDC) in the 
calculation of TRM. 
 
Transmission Provider uses TRM in all AFC calculations.  Transmission Provider includes TRM 
in the AFC/ATC calculation to provide a reasonable level of assurance that the interconnected 
transmission network will be secure. TRM is not scheduled against or explicitly used for the 
delivery of energy.  It is preserved as a reliability margin to reflect the uncertainty of the 
operation of the electric system (i.e., to prevent oversubscription of the transmission system).  
Transmission Provider flowgates with their TRM, CBM, and ratings are posted on the PJM 
OASIS paged under ATC Information at: 
 
ftp://ftp.pjm.com/oasis/fgates-definitions-posting.csv   
 
Total Transfer Capability (TTC) 
 
The Total Transfer Capability (TTC) is the amount of transfers that can be reliably delivered 
across the interconnected transmission system for the forecasted conditions.  The Transmission 
Provider uses the network AFC methodology to calculate ATC, which does not use TTC as an 
input.  The flowgate rating is an equivalent starting point in the AFC calculation.  However, a 
TTC value is derived as an output and is posted. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C-1 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
