[ATTACHMENT F - Part 2 of 2]

In the event of the Deactivation of a Generation Capacity Resource (in accordance with Tariff, 
Part V and any Applicable Standards), or removal of Capacity Resource status (in accordance 
with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6 or Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6A), any Capacity 
Interconnection Rights associated with such facility shall terminate one year from the 
Deactivation Date, or one year from the date the Capacity Resource status change takes effect, 
unless the holder of such rights (including any holder that acquired the rights after Deactivation 
or removal of Capacity Resource status) has submitted a new Generation Interconnection 
Request up to one year after the Deactivation Date, or up to one year from the date the Capacity 
Resource status changes take effect, which contemplates use of the same Capacity 
Interconnection Rights.  The Interconnection Customer must provide written notification to the 
Transmission Provider that it intends to utilize such Capacity Interconnection Rights on or before 
the date the Interconnection Customer executes the System Impact Study Agreement associated 
with the Generation Interconnection Request for which it intends to utilize such Capacity 
Interconnection Rights.  Notwithstanding the previous sentence, Interconnection Customers in 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 230 Capacity Interconnection 
Rights: --> OATT 230.3 Loss of Capacity Interconnection Rights 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
the New Services Queue prior to May 1, 2012 must provide written notice of intent to utilize 
such Capacity Interconnection Rights when it executes its Facilities Study Agreement or, if it has 
already executed its Facilities Study Agreement, then by November 1, 2012.  Such notification 
of transfer of Capacity Interconnection Rights shall be posted on Transmission Provider’s public 
website.  Such new Generation Interconnection Request may include a request to increase 
Capacity Interconnection Rights in addition to the replacement of the previously deactivated 
amount, or amount removed from Capacity Resource status, as a single Generation 
Interconnection Request.  Transmission Provider may perform thermal, short circuit, and/or 
stability studies, as necessary and in accordance with its manuals, due to any changes in the 
electrical characteristics of any newly proposed equipment, or where there is a change in Point of 
Interconnection, which may result in the loss of a portion or all of the Capacity Interconnection 
Rights as determined by such studies. 
 
Upon execution of an Interconnection Service Agreement reflecting its new Interconnection 
Request, the holder of the Capacity Interconnection Rights will retain only such rights that are 
commensurate with the size in megawatts of the replacement generation, not to exceed the 
amount of the holder’s Capacity Interconnection Rights associated with the facility upon 
Deactivation or removal of Capacity Resource status.  Any desired increase in Capacity 
Interconnection Rights must be requested in the new Generation Interconnection Request and be 
accredited through the applicable procedures in Tariff, Part IV and Tariff, Part VI.  In the event 
the new Interconnection Request to which this section refers is or is deemed to be terminated 
and/or withdrawn for any reason at any time, the pertinent Capacity Interconnection Rights shall 
not terminate until the end of the one year period from the Deactivation Date, or the end of the 
one year period from the date the Capacity Resource status change takes effect.   
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 230 Capacity Interconnection 
Rights: --> OATT 230.4 Transfer of Capacity Interconnection Rights: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
230.4 Transfer of Capacity Interconnection Rights:  
 
Capacity Interconnection Rights may be sold or otherwise transferred subject to compliance with 
such procedures as may be established by the Transmission Provider regarding such transfer and 
notice to the Transmission Provider of any generation facilities that will use the Capacity 
Interconnection Rights after the transfer.  The transfer of Capacity Interconnection Rights shall 
not itself extend the periods set forth in section 230.3 above regarding loss of Capacity 
Interconnection Rights. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 231 Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
231 Incremental Auction Revenue Rights: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 231 Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights: --> OATT 231.1 Right of New Service Customer to Incremental Auct 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
231.1 Right of New Service Customer to Incremental Auction Revenue Rights:   
 
A New Service Customer that (a) pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, Subpart B, section 212.1, 
reimburses the Transmission Provider for the costs of, or (b) pursuant to its Construction Service 
Agreement undertakes responsibility for, constructing or completing Network Upgrades and/or 
Local Upgrades required to accommodate its New Service Request shall be entitled to receive 
the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights associated with such facilities and upgrades as 
determined in accordance with this section 231. In addition, an Interconnection Customer that 
executes an Upgrade Construction Service Agreement for Merchant Network Upgrades shall be 
entitled to receive the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights as determined in accordance with 
this section 231. However, a Transmission Interconnection Customer that interconnects 
Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities with the Transmission System shall be entitled to Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
associated with such Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities only if the Interconnection Customer has elected, pursuant to Tariff, Part 
IV, section 36.1.03, to receive Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, Incremental Deliverability 
Rights, Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights, and Incremental Available Transfer Capability 
Revenue Rights in lieu of Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal 
Rights. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 231 Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights: --> OATT 231.2 Procedures for Assigning Incremental Auction Reve 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
231.2 Procedures for Assigning Incremental Auction Revenue Rights:   
 
No less than forty-five (45) days prior to the in-service date, as determined by the Office of the 
Interconnection, of the applicable Customer Facility or of a transmission facility or upgrade 
related to a New Service Request, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify the New Service 
Customer(s) which have responsibility to reimburse the costs of, or responsibility for, 
constructing or completing the facility or upgrade, that initial requests for Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights associated with the facility or upgrade must be submitted to the Office of the 
Interconnection within a time period specified by the Office of the Interconnection in the 
notification. The Office of the Interconnection then shall commence a three-round allocation 
process.  In round one, one-third of the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights available for each 
point-to-point combination requested in that round will be assigned to the requesters of the 
specific combinations in accordance with section 231.3 below. 
 
In round two, two-thirds of the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights available for each requested 
point-to-point combination in that round will be assigned in accordance with section 231.3 
below.  In round three, all available Incremental Auction Revenue Rights will be assigned for the 
requested point-to-point combinations in that round in accordance with section 231.3 below.  In 
each round, a requester may request the same point-to-point combination as in the previous 
rounds or submit a different combination.  In rounds one and two, requesters may accept the 
assignment of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights or refuse them.  Acceptance of the 
assignment in rounds one and two will remove the assigned Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
from availability in the next rounds.  Refusal of an Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
assignment in rounds one and two will result in the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights being 
available for the next round.  The Incremental Auction Revenue Rights assignments made in 
round three will be final and binding.  The final and binding Incremental Auction Revenue Right 
assignment for a requested point-to-point combination in each round shall in no event be less 
than one third of 80% and no greater than one-third of 100% of the non-binding estimate of 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights for that point-to-point combination that was provided to the 
New Service Customer under Tariff, Part VI, Subpart A, section 206.5.2.  For each round, a 
request for Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall specify a single point-to-point 
combination for which the New Service Customer desires Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
and shall be in a form specified by the Office of the Interconnection and in accordance with 
procedures set forth in the PJM Manuals. The Office of the Interconnection shall specify the 
deadlines for submission of requests in each round of the allocation process and shall complete 
the allocation process before the in-service date of the facility or upgrade. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 231 Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights: --> OATT 231.3 Determination of Incremental Auction Revenue Righ 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
231.3 Determination of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights to be Provided to New 
Service Customer:  
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall determine the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights to be 
provided to New Service Customers associated with a particular transmission facility or upgrade 
pursuant to section 231.2 above using the tools described in Tariff, Attachment K, including an 
assessment of the simultaneous feasibility of any Incremental Auction Revenue Rights and all 
other outstanding Auction Revenue Rights. For each requested point-to-point combination, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall determine, simultaneously with all other requested point-to-
point combinations, the base system Auction Revenue Right capability, excluding the impact of 
any new transmission facilities or upgrades necessary to accommodate New Service Requests.  
The Office of the Interconnection then shall similarly determine, for each requested point-to-
point combination, the Auction Revenue Rights capability, including the impact of any new 
facilities and upgrades.  For each point-to-point combination, the Incremental Auction Revenue 
Right capability shall be the difference between the Auction Revenue Right capability in the base 
system analysis and the Auction Revenue Right capability in the analysis including the impact of 
the new facilities and upgrades. When multiple New Service Customers have cost responsibility 
for the same new transmission facility or upgrade, Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall be 
assigned to each New Service Customer in proportion to the New Service Customers’ relative 
cost responsibilities for the facility and in inverse proportion to the relative flow impact on 
constrained facilities or interfaces of the point-to-point combinations selected by the New 
Service Customers. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 231 Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights: --> OATT 231.4 Reallocation of Incremental Auction Revenue Right 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
231.4 Reallocation of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights:  
 
(1) This section shall apply in the event that  
 
(a) the Office of the Interconnection determines that accommodating a New Service Customer’s 
New Service Request would require, in whole or in part, any Local Upgrade and/or Network 
Upgrade that the Office of the Interconnection determined to be required to accommodate a New 
Service Request that was part of an earlier New Services Queue, provided that such previously-
constructed facility or upgrade meets the criteria stated in Tariff, Part VI, Subpart B, section 219, 
and  
 
(b) such New Service Customer (hereafter in this section, the “Current Customer”) executes, as 
applicable, an Interconnection Service Agreement or an Upgrade Construction Service 
Agreement. 
 
Upon determining that this section applies, the Office of the Interconnection shall: 
 
(c) notify each New Service Customer that paid or incurred a portion of the costs of a pertinent, 
previously-constructed facility or upgrade (hereafter in this section, a “Preceding Customer”) of 
the portion of the costs of such facility or upgrade for which the Current Customer is determined 
to be responsible, and 
 
(d) afford each such Preceding Customer, subject to the terms of this section 231.4, an 
opportunity to obtain, in exchange for a proportional share (as determined in accordance with 
section 231.3 above) of the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights associated with such facility or 
upgrade that the Preceding Customer holds, reimbursement for a share of the cost of the facility 
or upgrade that the Preceding Customer paid or incurred that is proportional to the cost 
responsibility of the Current Customer for such facility or upgrade.  
 
(2) A Preceding Customer shall have no obligation to exchange Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights for cost reimbursement pursuant to this section.  In the event, however, that a Preceding 
Customer chooses not to relinquish Incremental Auction Revenue Rights associated with a 
previously-constructed facility or upgrade, the Current Customer shall have no cost 
responsibility with respect to the portion of such facility or upgrade for which that Preceding 
Customer bore cost responsibility.  
 
(3) In the event that a Preceding Customer elects to exchange Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights for cost reimbursement pursuant to this section, (a) the Preceding Customer shall 
relinquish the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights that it elects to exchange in writing, in a 
form and at a time reasonably satisfactory to the Office of the Interconnection; (b) the Current 
Customer shall pay Transmission Provider, upon presentation of Transmission Provider’s 
invoice therefor, an amount equal to the portion of such customer’s cost responsibility for the 
relevant, previously-constructed facility or upgrade that is proportional to the Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights that the Preceding Customer agreed to exchange; and (c) the Office of 
the Interconnection shall assign Incremental Auction Revenue Rights associated with the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 231 Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights: --> OATT 231.4 Reallocation of Incremental Auction Revenue Right 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
previously-constructed facility or upgrade to the Current Customer in accordance with the 
following: 
 
(i) in the event that more than one Current Customer is contemporaneously eligible for a 
reallocation of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights associated with a facility or upgrade, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall use the procedures of section 231.2 above to reallocate the 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights made feasible by retirement of the Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights relinquished by the Preceding Customer; 
 
(ii) in all other instances, the Current Customer shall be entitled to assignment of either (A) 
the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights associated with the pertinent facility or upgrade that the 
Preceding Customer relinquished pursuant to this section, or (B) any new Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights that are made feasible by retirement of the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
relinquished by the Preceding Customer, provided, however,  
 
(iii) that if it is not feasible to assign Incremental Auction Revenue Rights associated with the 
pertinent facility or upgrade to the Current Customer in proportion to such customer’s cost 
responsibility for that facility or upgrade, then (A) the Current Customer’s cost responsibility for 
the pertinent facility or upgrade shall be reduced to an amount proportional to the Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights that can be feasibly assigned to it, and (B) the Preceding Customer’s 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights associated with the pertinent facility or upgrade shall be 
reduced only by a quantity proportional to the Current Customer’s final cost responsibility. In the 
event of a reduction in the Current Customer’s cost responsibility for a previously-constructed 
facility or upgrade pursuant to this subsection (3)(c)(iii), Transmission Provider shall refund to 
the Current Customer the difference between the amount such customer paid pursuant to 
subsection (3)(b) of this section and the amount of its final cost responsibility for the pertinent 
facility or upgrade. Upon completion of the reallocation process, Transmission Provider shall 
pay to the Preceding Customer an amount that is proportional to the Current Customer’s final 
cost responsibility for the pertinent facility or upgrade and to the Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights relinquished by the Preceding Customer. 
 
(4) A Preceding Customer that elects to exchange rights for cost reimbursement pursuant to this 
section must exchange all Incremental Auction Revenue Rights and all other Upgrade-Related 
Rights associated with the same Local Upgrade and/or Network Upgrade. 
 
(5) The Office of the Interconnection shall specify deadlines for the procedural steps in 
reallocating Incremental Auction Revenue Rights pursuant to this section and shall complete the 
reallocation process before the date of, as applicable, commencement of Interconnection Service, 
Transmission Service or Network Service for the Current Customer, or completion of the 
Customer-Funded Upgrade that precipitated the reallocation of such rights. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 231 Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights: --> OATT 231.5 Duration of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
231.5 Duration of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights:   
 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights received by a New Service Customer pursuant to this 
section shall be available as of the first day of the first month that the Network Upgrades and/or 
Local Upgrades required to accommodate its New Service Request that are associated with the 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights are included in the transmission system model for the 
monthly FTR auction and shall continue to be available for thirty (30) years or for the life of the 
associated facility or upgrade, whichever is less, subject to any subsequent pro-rata reductions of 
all Auction Revenue Rights (including Incremental Auction Revenue Rights) in accordance with 
the Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix.  At any time during this thirty-year period (or the life of the 
facility or upgrade, whichever is less), in lieu of continuing this thirty-year Auction Revenue 
Right, the New Service Customer shall have a one-time choice to switch to an optional 
mechanism, whereby, on an annual basis, the customer has the choice to request an Auction 
Revenue Right during the annual Auction Revenue Rights allocation process (pursuant to Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4.2) between the same source and sink, provided the Auction 
Revenue Right is simultaneously feasible, pursuant to Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
7.5.  A New Service Customer may return Incremental Auction Revenue Rights that it no longer 
desires at any time, provided that the Office of the Interconnection determines that it can 
simultaneously accommodate all remaining outstanding Auction Revenue Rights following the 
return of such Auction Revenue Rights.  In the event a New Service Customer returns 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, the New Service Customer shall have no further rights 
regarding such Incremental Auction Revenue Rights. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 231 Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights: --> OATT 231.5A Value of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
231.5A   Value of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights:   
 
The value of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights to be provided to a New Service Customer 
associated with a particular transmission facility or upgrade pursuant to section 231.2 above that 
become effective at the beginning of a Planning Period shall be determined in the same manner 
as annually allocated Auction Revenue Rights based on the nodal prices resulting from the 
annual Financial Transmission Rights auction.  The value of such Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights that become effective after the commencement of a Planning Period shall be determined 
on a monthly basis for each month in the Planning Period beginning with the month the 
Incremental Auction Revenue Right(s) becomes effective.  The value of such Incremental 
Auction Revenue Right shall be equal to the megawatt amount of the Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights multiplied by the LMP differential between the source and sink nodes of the 
corresponding FTR obligations in each prompt-month FTR auction that occurs from the effective 
date of the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights through the end of the relevant Planning Period.  
For each Planning Period thereafter, the value of such Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall 
be determined in the same manner as Incremental Auction Revenue Rights that became effective 
at the beginning of a Planning Period.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 231 Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights: --> OATT 231.6 Rate-based Facilities: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
231.6 Rate-based Facilities:   
 
No Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall be received by a New Service Customer with 
respect to transmission investment that is included in the rate base of a public utility and on 
which a regulated return is earned. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 232 Transmission Injection Rights 
and Transmission With 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
232 Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 232 Transmission Injection Rights 
and Transmission With --> OATT 232.1 Purpose: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
232.1 Purpose:   
 
Transmission Injection Rights shall entitle the holder, as provided in this section 232, to schedule 
energy transmitted on the associated Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable 
A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities for injection into the Transmission System at a Point of 
Interconnection of the Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities with the Transmission System. Transmission Withdrawal Rights shall 
entitle the holder, as provided in this section 232, to schedule for transmission on the associated 
Merchant Transmission Facilities energy to be withdrawn from the Transmission System at a 
Point of Interconnection of the Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities with the Transmission System. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 232 Transmission Injection Rights 
and Transmission With --> OATT 232.2 Right of Interconnection Customer to Transmission 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
232.2 Right of Interconnection Customer to Transmission Injection Rights and 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights:  
 
Provided that such customer elects pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.1.03 to 
receive Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights in lieu of 
Incremental Deliverability Rights, Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, Incremental Capacity 
Transfer Rights, and Incremental Available Transfer Capability Revenue Rights, and subject to 
the terms of this section 232, a Transmission Interconnection Customer that constructs Merchant 
D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities that 
interconnect with the Transmission System and with another control area outside the PJM 
Region shall be entitled to receive Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights at each terminal where such customer’s Merchant D.C. Transmission 
Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities interconnect with the 
Transmission System.  A Transmission Interconnection Customer that is granted Firm 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights and/or transmission customers that have a Point of Delivery at 
the Border of PJM where the Transmission System interconnects with the Merchant D.C. 
Transmission Facilities may be responsible for a reasonable allocation of transmission upgrade 
costs added to the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan after such Transmission 
Interconnection Customer’s Queue Position is established, in accordance with Tariff, Part I, 
section 3E and Tariff, Schedule 12.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Transmission Injection 
Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights awarded to an Interconnection Customer that 
interconnects Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities shall be, throughout the 
duration of the Interconnection Service Agreement applicable to such interconnection, 
conditioned on such customer’s continuous operation of its Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities in a controllable manner, i.e., in a manner effectively the same as 
operation of D.C. transmission facilities. 
 
232.2.1 Total Capability:  
 
A Transmission Interconnection Customer or other party may hold Transmission Injection 
Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights simultaneously at the same terminal on the 
Transmission System. However, neither the aggregate Transmission Injection Rights nor the 
aggregate Transmission Withdrawal Rights held at a terminal may exceed the Nominal Rated 
Capability of the interconnected Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities, as stated in the associated Interconnection Service Agreement. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 232 Transmission Injection Rights 
and Transmission With --> OATT 232.3 Determination of Transmission Injection Rights an 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
232.3 Determination of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal 
Rights to be Provided to Interconnection Customer:   
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall determine the Transmission Injection Rights and the 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights associated with Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or 
Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities to be provided to eligible Transmission 
Interconnection Customer(s) pursuant to the procedures specified in the PJM Manuals. The 
Office of the Interconnection shall state in the System Impact Study the Transmission Injection 
Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights (including the quantity of each type of such rights) 
to be made available to the Transmission Interconnection Customer at the terminal(s) where the 
pertinent Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities interconnect with the Transmission System. Such rights shall become 
available to the Transmission Interconnection Customer pursuant to the Interconnection Service 
Agreement and upon commencement of Interconnection Service thereunder. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 232 Transmission Injection Rights 
and Transmission With --> OATT 232.4 Duration of Transmission Injection Rights and Tra 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
232.4 Duration of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights:   
 
Subject to the terms of section 232.7 below, Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights received by a Transmission Interconnection Customer shall be effective for 
the life of the associated Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 232 Transmission Injection Rights 
and Transmission With --> OATT 232.5 Rate-based Facilities: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
232.5 Rate-based Facilities:   
 
No Transmission Injection Rights or Transmission Withdrawal Rights shall be received by a 
Transmission Interconnection Customer with respect to transmission investment that is included 
in the rate base of a public utility and on which a regulated return is earned. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 232 Transmission Injection Rights 
and Transmission With --> OATT 232.6 Transfer of Transmission Injection Rights and Tra 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
232.6 Transfer of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights:  
 
Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights may be sold or otherwise 
transferred subject to compliance with such procedures as Transmission Provider may establish 
(by publication in the PJM Manuals) regarding such transfer and required notice to the 
Transmission Provider of use of such rights after the transfer.  The transfer of Transmission 
Injection Rights or of Transmission Withdrawal Rights shall not itself extend the periods set 
forth in section 232.7 below regarding loss of such rights. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 232 Transmission Injection Rights 
and Transmission With --> OATT 232.7 Loss of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmi 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
232.7 Loss of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights:  
 
232.7.1 Operational Standards:   
 
To retain Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights, the associated 
Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities must operate or be capable of operating at the capacity level associated with the rights.  
Operational capability shall be established consistent with applicable criteria stated in the PJM 
Manuals. Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities that meet these operational standards shall retain their Transmission 
Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights regardless of whether they are used to 
transmit energy within or to points outside the PJM Region. 
 
232.7.2 Failure to Meet Operational Standards:   
 
In the event that any Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities fail to meet the operational standards set forth in section 232.7.1 above 
for any consecutive three-year period, the holder(s) of the associated Transmission Injection 
Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights will lose such rights in an amount reflecting the loss 
of first contingency transfer capability.  Any period during which the transmission facility fails 
to meet the standards set forth in section 232.7.1 above as a result of an event that meets the 
standards of a force majeure event as defined in Tariff, Attachment O, Appendix 2, section 9.4 
shall be excluded from such consecutive three-year period, provided that the owner of the 
Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities exercises due diligence to remedy the event. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 233 Incremental Available Transfer 
Capability Revenue R 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
233 Incremental Available Transfer Capability Revenue Rights: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart C – Rights Related to Customer-Funded Upgrades --> OATT 233 Incremental Available Transfer 
Capability Revenue R --> OATT 233.1 Right of Transmission Interconnection Customer to 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
233.1 Right of Transmission Interconnection Customer to Incremental Available Transfer 
Capability Revenue Rights:  
 
An Interconnection Customer that interconnects a Customer Facility with the Transmission 
System shall be entitled to receive any Incremental Available Transfer Capability Revenue 
Rights that are associated with the interconnection of such facility as determined in accordance 
with this section. In addition, a New Service Customer that (a) reimburses the Transmission 
Provider for the costs of, or (b) pursuant to its Construction Service Agreement undertakes 
responsibility for, constructing or completing required Customer-Funded Upgrades to 
accommodate its New Service Request shall be entitled to receive any Incremental Available 
Transfer Capability Revenue Rights associated with such required facilities and upgrades as 
determined in accordance with this section. 
 
233.1.1 Certain Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities:  
 
An Interconnection Customer (a) that interconnects Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities 
and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities with the Transmission System, one 
terminus of which is located outside the PJM Region and the other terminus of which is located 
within the PJM Region, and (b) that will be a Merchant Transmission Provider, shall not receive 
any Incremental Available Transfer Capability Revenue Rights with respect to its Merchant D.C. 
Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities. 
Transmission Provider shall not include available transfer capability at the interface(s) associated 
with such Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities in its calculations of Available Transfer Capability under Tariff, 
