[ATTACHMENT N - Part 2 of 5]

binding, and additional actual study costs may exceed the estimated 
additional study cost increases provided by the Transmission Provider.  
Regardless of whether the Transmission Provider provides the 
Interconnection Customer with estimated additional study costs, the 
Interconnection Customer is responsible for and must pay all actual study 
costs. 
i. If the Transmission Provider sends the Interconnection Customer 
notification of estimated additional study costs during the 
deficiency review period (as described below), then the 
Interconnection Customer must either: 
(1) Withdraw the Generation Interconnection Request during 
the deficiency response period (as described below); or 
(2) Pay all estimated additional study costs prior to the 
expiration of the deficiency response period (as described 
below).   
(3) If the Interconnection Customer fails to complete either (1) 
or (2) above, the Generation Interconnection Request shall 
be deemed to be terminated and withdrawn. 
ii. If at any time after the deficiency review period the Transmission 
Provider provides the Interconnection Customer with notification 
of estimated additional study costs, the Interconnection Customer 
must pay such estimated additional study costs within ten Business 
Days of Transmission Provider sending the Interconnection 
Customer notification of such estimated additional study costs.  If 
the Interconnection Customer fails to pay such estimated additional 
study costs within ten Business Days of Transmission Provider 
sending the Interconnection Customer notification of such 
estimated additional study costs, then the Generation 
Interconnection Request shall be deemed to be terminated and 
withdrawn. 
c. If there are deficiencies in the Generation Interconnection Request for any 
of the requirements set forth above, the Transmission Provider shall use 
Reasonable Efforts consistent with the volume of the New Services Queue 
to notify the Interconnection Customer (electronically when available to 
all parties, otherwise written) within fifteen Business Days of receipt of 
the Generation Interconnection Request that such Generation 
Interconnection Request is deficient.  If Transmission Provider is unable 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112 Temporary Energy 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or Les --> OATT 112.1 Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 7 
to provide a deficiency review within fifteen Business Days from receipt 
of the Generation Interconnection Request, Transmission Provider shall 
use Reasonable Efforts to complete and issue the deficiency review to the 
Interconnection Customer as soon thereafter as practicable, but, in no 
event shall the Transmission Provider’s response herein serve as a basis to 
delaying Transmission Provider’s compliance with the Interconnection 
Feasibility Study provisions of the Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2.  
This notification is referred to as a deficiency notice. 
i. The deficiency notice shall clearly set forth the basis upon which 
the deficiency determination was made. 
ii. The Interconnection Customer shall be provided ten Business Days 
to respond to the deficiency notice.  This ten Business Day period 
is referred to as the deficiency response period. 
(1) Within the deficiency response period, the Interconnection 
Customer shall provide, in full, the additional information 
and/or evidence (such as generation site control) and/or 
monies that the Transmission Provider’s deficiency notice 
identified as being required to constitute a valid Generation 
Interconnection Request. 
(2) If the Interconnection Customer fails to clear within the 
deficiency response period all deficiencies identified by the 
Transmission Provider in the deficiency notice, the 
Generation Interconnection Request shall be deemed to be 
terminated and withdrawn. 
iii. Without regard to the timing of the Interconnection Customer’s 
deficiency response period, the Transmission Provider shall use 
Reasonable Efforts consistent with the volume of the New Services 
Queue to review each Interconnection Customer’s response to the 
deficiency notice within fifteen Business Days of the 
Interconnection Customer submitting its response to the deficiency 
notice.  If Transmission Provider is unable to complete its review 
of Interconnection Customer’s response to the deficiency notice 
within fifteen Business Days of receiving the response, 
Transmission Provider shall use Reasonable Efforts to complete 
such review as soon thereafter as practicable , but, in no event shall 
the Transmission Provider’s response herein serve as a basis to 
delaying Transmission Provider’s compliance with the 
Interconnection Feasibility Study provisions of the Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart A, section 36.2.  If the Generation Interconnection Request 
is still deficient after the Transmission Provider’s review of 
Interconnection Customer’s response to the deficiency notice and 
the full ten Business Days of the Interconnection Customer’s 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112 Temporary Energy 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or Les --> OATT 112.1 Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 8 
deficiency response period have expired, the Generation 
Interconnection Request shall be deemed to be terminated and 
withdrawn. 
iv. If the Interconnection Customer fails to respond in full to the 
Transmission Provider’s deficiency notice (including failing to 
provide all of the additional required information, evidence and/or 
make payments on any outstanding invoices required by the 
Transmission Provider’s deficiency notice), the Generation 
Interconnection Request shall be deemed to be terminated and 
withdrawn. 
3. The Interconnection Customer must submit a complete and fully executed 
Generation Interconnection Feasibility Study Agreement (Tariff, Attachment N) 
to the Transmission Provider by March 10 for the New Services Queue ending 
March 31, and by September 10 for the New Services Queue ending September 
30.  No Generation Interconnection Requests shall be accepted for the relevant 
New Services Queue after such dates.  
4. In accordance with Tariff, Part VI, Preamble, section 201, Transmission Provider 
shall assign Queue Positions as of the date and time of receipt of all information 
required pursuant to this section 112.1.  If the information required pursuant to 
this section 112.1 is provided to the Transmission Provider in separate 
submissions, the Queue Position shall be assigned based on the date and time of 
receipt of the last required piece of information. 
5. Deficiency notices shall be considered cleared as of the date and time the 
Transmission Provider receives from the Interconnection Customer the last piece 
of required information deemed acceptable by the Transmission Provider to clear 
such deficiency notice. 
6. Because temporary Energy Resources are not granted any long term rights with 
respect to the transmission system, such requests shall not be identified in the 
New Services Queue on the PJM website.  A separate queue of such requests shall 
be maintained in order to facilitate processing. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112 Temporary Energy 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or Les --> OATT 112.2 Feasibility/Impact/Facilities Study 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
112.2 Feasibility/Impact/Facilities Study 
 
Limited power flow analyses will be performed to ensure that local contingency criteria are not 
violated. 
 
Load deliverability and generation deliverability tests are not performed for Energy Resources. 
 
Stability analysis will only be performed if temporary Energy Resources are connected at a 
location where stability margins associated with existing resources are small. 
 
Short circuit calculations are performed for small resource additions to ensure that circuit breaker 
capabilities are not exceeded. 
 
It is expected that the attachment of temporary Energy Resources will be based on “turn key” 
installations.  Transmission Provider may contract with consultants, including the Interconnected 
Transmission Owners, or contractors acting on their behalf, to evaluate the engineering details of 
the physical attachment as well as the relaying and metering associated with the resource. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112 Temporary Energy 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or Les --> OATT 112.3 Interconnection Service Agreement 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112.3 Interconnection Service Agreement 
 
A modified Interconnection Service Agreement will be executed and filed with the FERC as 
specified in Tariff, Part VI, Subpart B, section 212 and Tariff, Part VI, Subpart B, section 214, 
identifying the obligations and rights related to the interconnection of a temporary Energy 
Resource.  Such agreement will identify the interconnection of the resource, cost responsibility 
for transmission system upgrades, if any, and the date when the temporary interconnection will 
expire. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112 Temporary Energy 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or Les --> OATT 112.4 Other Requirements 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
112.4 Other Requirements 
 
Membership and application fees will be waived for parties wishing to interconnect temporary 
Energy Resources, if they are not otherwise required based on a party’s participation in PJM.  
Additionally, control center facilities and modeling requirements are also waived.  However, 
temporary Energy Resources must have hourly integrated energy meters to facilitate payment for 
sales to the PJM spot market.  Meter readings are also required to adjust hourly loads to 
accurately determine transmission and capacity obligations of load serving entities. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112A Permanent or Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or Less (Synchronous) or 5 
MW or Less (Inverter-based) 
 
Fast Track Eligibility 
 
The screens process is available to an Interconnection Customer proposing to interconnect its 
Energy Resource with the Transmission Provider’s system if the Energy Resource capacity does 
not exceed the size limits identified in the table below.  Energy Resources below these limits are 
eligible for the screens process.  However, eligibility is distinct from the screens process itself, 
and eligibility does not imply or indicate that an Energy Resource will pass the screens in section 
112A.2 below or the Supplemental Review screens in section 112A.5.3 below.   
 
Eligibility is determined based upon the generator type, the size of the generator, voltage of the 
line and the location of and the type of line at the Point of Interconnection.  All Energy 
Resources connecting to lines greater than 69 kilovolt (kV) are ineligible for this process 
regardless of size.  All synchronous and induction machines must be no larger than 2 MW to be 
eligible for this process, regardless of location.  For certified inverter-based systems, the size 
limit varies according to the voltage of the line at the proposed Point of Interconnection.  
Certified inverter-based Energy Resources located within 2.5 electrical circuit miles of a 
substation and on a mainline (as defined in the table below) are eligible for this process under the 
higher thresholds according to the table below.  In addition to the size threshold, the 
Interconnection Customer’s proposed Energy Resource must meet the codes, standards and 
certification requirements of Tariff, Attachment Z and Tariff, Attachment AA.  Alternatively, the 
Transmission Provider has to have reviewed the design or tested the proposed Energy Resource 
and is satisfied that it is safe to operate. 
 
Fast Track Eligibility for Inverter-Based Systems 
Line Voltage 112A Eligibility 
Regardless of Location 
112A Eligibility on a Mainline1 and ≤ 
2.5 Electrical Circuit Miles from 
Substation2 
< 5 kV ≤ 500 kW ≤ 500 kW 
≥ 5 kV and < 15 kV ≤ 2 MW ≤ 3 MW 
≥ 15 kV and < 30 kV ≤ 3 MW ≤ 4 MW 
≥ 30 kV and ≤ 69 kV ≤ 4 MW ≤ 5 MW 
 
In the event that such an Energy Resource does not meet such certification requirements, the 
request for interconnection of the Energy Resource shall be processed under Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart G, section 111 or Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112, as applicable. 
________________________ 
1 For purposes of this table, a mainline is the three-phase backbone of a circuit. It will typically constitute lines with 
wire sizes of 4/0 American wire gauge, 336.4 kcmil, 397.5 kcmil, 477 kcmil and 795 kcmil. 
2  An Interconnection Customer can determine this information about its proposed interconnection location in 
advance by requesting a pre-application report pursuant to section 1.2. 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
 
Energy Resources requesting interconnection under this section 112A may be expedited ahead of 
larger projects already in the New Services Queue.  In such instance, the Energy Resource shall 
be able to participate in the energy market until the studies have been completed for the earlier 
queued projects and all related obligations have been defined.  At such time as these studies are 
completed and reveal additional obligations required of the Energy Resource interconnected 
under this section 112A, a revised Interconnection Service Agreement shall be executed. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.1  Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 1 
112A.1   Application 
 
The Interconnection Customer desiring the interconnection of a new permanent or temporary 
Energy Resource of 2 MW or less (synchronous) or 5 MW or less (inverter-based) must submit 
to the Transmission Provider an Interconnection Request.  The Transmission Provider shall 
acknowledge receipt of the Interconnection Request (electronically when available to all parties, 
otherwise written) within five Business Days after receipt of the Interconnection Request. 
 
1. Interconnection Request Requirements. 
a. To be assigned a PJM Queue Position pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, 
Preamble, section 201, an Interconnection Customer must submit a 
complete and fully executed Form of Screens Process Interconnection 
Request (For Generation Facilities of 2 MW or Less Synchronous 5 MW 
or Less Inverter-Based), a form of which is located in the Tariff, 
Attachment Y.  To be considered complete at the time of submission, the 
Interconnection Customer’s Form of Screens Process Interconnection 
Request (For Generation Facilities of 2 MW or Less Synchronous 5 MW 
or Less Inverter-Based) must include, at a minimum, each of the 
following: 
i.  Interconnection Customer Information; and 
ii.  Energy Resource Information; and 
iii.  Energy Resource Characteristic Data; and 
iv. Interconnection Facilities Information; and  
v.  Diagrams and Site Control; and 
vi.  Deposit. 
(1) A deposit shall be submitted to Transmission Provider, as 
follows: 
(a) A deposit of $2,000 if the Interconnection Request 
is received in the first four calendar months of the 
current New Services Queue; or 
(b) A deposit of $3,000 if the Interconnection Request 
is received in the fifth calendar month of the current 
New Services Queue; or  
(c) A deposit of $5,000 if the Interconnection Request 
is received in the sixth calendar month of the 
current New Services Queue. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.1  Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 2 
(2) 10% of each total deposit amount is non-refundable.  Any 
unused non-refundable deposit monies shall be returned to 
the Interconnection Customer upon Initial Operation.  
However, if, before reaching Initial Operation, the 
Interconnection Customer withdraws its Interconnection 
Request, or the Interconnection Request is otherwise 
deemed rejected or terminated and withdrawn, any unused 
portion of the non-refundable deposit monies shall be used 
to fund: 
(a) Any outstanding monies owed by the 
Interconnection Customer in connection with 
outstanding invoices due to Transmission Provider, 
Interconnected Transmission Owner(s) and/or third 
party contractors, as applicable, as a result of any 
failure of the Interconnection Customer to pay 
actual costs for the Interconnection Request and/or 
associated Queue Position; and/or 
(b) Any restudies required as a result of the rejection, 
termination and/or withdrawal of such 
Interconnection Request; and/or 
(c) Any outstanding monies owed by the 
Interconnection Customer in connection with 
outstanding invoices related to prior New Service 
Requests and/or Generation Interconnection 
Requests and/or Queue Positions by the 
Interconnection Customer. 
(3) 90% of each total deposit amount is refundable, and the 
Transmission Provider shall utilize, in no particular order, 
the refundable portion of each total deposit amount to cover 
the following: 
(a) The cost of the screens evaluation and/or 
supplemental screens evaluations; and 
(b) The dollar amount of the Interconnection 
Customer’s cost responsibility for the 
Interconnection Feasibility Study; and 
(c) If the Interconnection Request is deemed to be 
modified (pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, 
section 36.2A), rejected, terminated and/or 
withdrawn during the deficiency review and/or 
deficiency response period, as described further 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.1  Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 3 
below, or during the screens evaluation period, the 
refundable deposit money shall be applied to cover 
all of the costs incurred by the Transmission 
Provider up to the point of such Interconnection 
Request being modified, rejected, terminated and/or 
withdrawn, and any remaining refundable deposit 
monies shall be applied to cover: 
(i) The costs of any restudies required as a 
result of the modification (pursuant to 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2A), 
rejection, termination and/or withdrawal of 
such Interconnection Request; and/or 
(ii) Any outstanding monies owed by the 
Interconnection Customer in connection 
with outstanding invoices due to 
Transmission Provider, Interconnected 
Transmission Owner(s) and/or third party 
contractors, as applicable, as a result of any 
failure of the Interconnection Customer to 
pay actual costs for the Interconnection 
Request and/or associated Queue Position; 
and/or 
(iii) Any outstanding monies owed by the 
Interconnection Customer in connection 
with outstanding invoices related to prior 
New Service Requests and/or Generation 
Interconnection Requests and/or Queue 
Positions by the Interconnection Customer. 
(iv) If any refundable deposit monies remain 
after all costs and outstanding monies owed, 
as described in this section, are covered, 
such remaining refundable deposit monies 
shall be returned to the Interconnection 
Customer in accordance with the PJM 
Manuals.  
(4) Upon completion of the screens evaluations, the 
Transmission Provider shall apply any remaining 
refundable deposit monies toward: 
(a) The Interconnection Customer’s cost responsibility 
for any other studies conducted for the 
Interconnection Request under Tariff, Part VI, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.1  Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 4 
which shall be applied prior to the deposit monies 
collected for such other studies; and/or 
(b) Any outstanding monies owed by the 
Interconnection Customer in connection with 
outstanding invoices related to prior New Service 
Requests and/or Generation Interconnection 
Requests and/or Queue Positions by the 
Interconnection Customer. 
(5) If any refundable deposit monies remain after the screens 
evaluations are complete and any outstanding monies owed 
by the Interconnection Customer in connection with 
outstanding invoices related to prior New Service Requests 
and/or Generation Interconnection Requests and/or Queue 
Positions by the Interconnection Customer have been paid, 
such remaining deposit monies shall be returned to the 
Interconnection Customer. 
(6) The Interconnection Customer must submit the total 
required deposit amount with the Interconnection Request.  
If the Interconnection Customer fails to submit the total 
required deposit amount with the Interconnection Request, 
the Interconnection Request shall be deemed to be 
terminated and withdrawn (i.e., the Interconnection 
Request shall be terminated prior to reaching the screens 
evaluations and/or deficiency review stage). 
(7) Deposit monies are non-transferrable.  Under no 
circumstances may refundable or non-refundable deposit 
monies for a specific Interconnection Request or Queue 
Position be applied in whole or in part to a different New 
Service Request or Interconnection Request or Queue 
Position. 
vii. Primary frequency response operating range for Energy Storage 
Resources. 
2. Deficiency Review.  Transmission Provider shall provide a deficiency review of 
the Interconnection Request to determine whether the Interconnection Customer 
submitted a valid Interconnection Request. 
a. If an Interconnection Request meets all of the requirements set forth 
above, the Transmission Provider shall start the deficiency review. 
b. If there are deficiencies in the Interconnection Request for any of the 
requirements set forth above, the Transmission Provider shall use 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.1  Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 5 
Reasonable Efforts consistent with the volume of the New Services Queue 
to notify the Interconnection Customer (electronically when available to 
all parties, otherwise written) within fifteen Business Days of receipt of 
the Interconnection Request that such Interconnection Request is deficient.  
If Transmission Provider is unable to provide a deficiency review within 
fifteen Business Days from receipt of the Generation Interconnection 
Request, Transmission Provider shall use Reasonable Efforts to complete 
and issue the deficiency review to the Interconnection Customer as soon 
thereafter as practicable, but, in no event shall the Transmission Provider’s 
response herein serve as a basis to delaying Transmission Provider’s 
compliance with the Interconnection Feasibility Study provisions of the 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2.  This notification is referred to as 
a deficiency notice. 
i. The deficiency notice shall clearly set forth the basis upon which 
the deficiency determination was made. 
ii. The Interconnection Customer shall be provided ten Business Days 
to respond to the deficiency notice.  This ten Business Day period 
is referred to as the deficiency response period. 
(1) Within the deficiency response period, the Interconnection 
Customer shall provide, in full, the additional information 
and/or evidence and/or monies that the Transmission 
Provider’s deficiency notice identified as being required to 
constitute a valid Interconnection Request. 
(2) If the Interconnection Customer fails to clear within the 
deficiency response period all deficiencies identified by the 
Transmission Provider in the deficiency notice, the 
Interconnection Request shall be deemed to be terminated 
and withdrawn. 
iii. Without regard to the timing of the Interconnection Customer’s 
deficiency response period, the Transmission Provider shall use 
Reasonable Efforts consistent with the volume of the New Services 
Queue to review each Interconnection Customer’s response to the 
deficiency notice within fifteen Business Days of the 
Interconnection Customer submitting its response to the deficiency 
notice.  If Transmission Provider is unable to complete its review 
of Interconnection Customer’s response to the deficiency notice 
within fifteen Business Days of receiving the response, 
Transmission Provider shall use Reasonable Efforts to complete 
such review as soon thereafter as practicable, but, in no event shall 
the Transmission Provider’s response herein serve as a basis to 
delaying Transmission Provider’s compliance with the 
Interconnection Feasibility Study provisions of the Tariff, Part IV, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.1  Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 6 
Subpart A, section 36.2.  If the Generation Interconnection Request 
is still deficient after the Transmission Provider’s review of 
Interconnection Customer’s response to the deficiency notice and 
the full ten Business Days of the Interconnection Customer’s 
deficiency response period have expired, the Interconnection 
Requests shall be deemed to be terminated and withdrawn. 
iv. If the Interconnection Customer fails to respond in full to the 
Transmission Provider’s deficiency notice (including failing to 
provide all of the additional required information, evidence and/or 
make payments on any outstanding invoices required by the 
Transmission Provider’s deficiency notice), the Generation 
Interconnection Request shall be deemed to be terminated and 
withdrawn. 
3. The Interconnection Customer must submit a complete and fully executed Form 
of Screens Process Interconnection Request (For Generation Facilities of 2 MW 
or Less Synchronous 5 MW or Less Inverter-Based) (Tariff, Attachment Y) to the 
Transmission Provider by March 10 for the New Services Queue ending March 
31, and by September 10 for the New Services Queue ending September 30.  No 
Generation Interconnection Requests shall be accepted for the relevant New 
Services Queue after such dates.  
4. In accordance with Tariff, Part VI, Preamble, section 201, Transmission Provider 
shall assign Queue Positions as of the date and time of receipt of all information 
required pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112A.  If the information 
required pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112A is provided to the 
Transmission Provider in separate submissions, the Queue Position shall be 
assigned based on the date and time of receipt of the last required piece of 
information. 
5. Deficiency notices shall be considered cleared as of the date and time the 
Transmission Provider receives from the Interconnection Customer the last piece 
of required information deemed acceptable by the Transmission Provider to clear 
such deficiency notice. 
6. Transmission Provider Website Postings. 
a. The Transmission Provider shall maintain on the Transmission Provider’s 
website a list of all Interconnection Requests that identifies: 
i. The proposed maximum summer and winter megawatt electrical 
output; 
ii. The location of the generation by county and state; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.1  Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 7 
iii. The station or transmission line or lines where the interconnection 
will be made; 
iv. The facility’s projected date of Initial Operation; 
v. The status of the Interconnection Request, including its Queue 
Position; 
vi. The type of Interconnection Service requested; 
vii. The availability of any studies related to the Interconnection 
Request; 
viii. The date of the Interconnection Request; 
ix. The type of Generating Facility to be constructed (combined cycle, 
base load or combustion turbine and fuel type); and 
x. For each Interconnection Request that has not resulted in a 
completed interconnection, an explanation of why it was not 
completed. 
b. This list shall not disclose the identity of the Interconnection Customer, except as 
otherwise provided in Tariff, Part IV.  The list and the priority of Interconnection 
Requests shall be included on the Transmission Provider’s website as part of the 
New Services Queue. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.2 Screens 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112A.2   Screens.  Subject to the Interconnection Customer, Transmission Provider and 
Interconnected Transmission Owner(s) mutually agreeing to reasonable extension of time 
beyond 15 business days, which agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld, within 15 
business days of the Interconnection Customer submitting an Interconnection Request pursuant 
to Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112A.1, Transmission Provider in consultation with the 
relevant Interconnected Transmission Owner(s) shall: 
 
1. Provide a screens review/evaluation of the Interconnection Request using the 
screens set forth below; and 
  
2. Notify the Interconnection Customer of the results of the initial review/evaluation 
and inform the Interconnection Customer whether supplemental screens evaluations must 
be performed; and 
  
3. Provide the Interconnection Customer with the analysis and data underlying the 
Transmission Provider’s determinations pursuant to the screens set forth below. 
 
112A.2.1 The proposed interconnection must be on a portion of the Interconnected 
Transmission Owner’s distribution facilities located in the PJM Region and the output of the 
Customer Facility to be used for wholesale sales in the PJM Region.  Distribution facilities shall 
include facilities that are non-networked, often lower voltage facilities that carry power in one 
direction, but does not include sub transmission facilities. 
 
112A.2.2 For interconnection of a proposed Energy Resource to a radial distribution circuit, 
the aggregated generation, including the proposed Energy Resource on the circuit shall not 
exceed 15% of the line section annual peak load as most recently measured at the substation.  A 
line section is that portion of an Interconnected Transmission Owner’s electric system connected 
to a customer and bounded by automatic sectionalizing devices or the end of the distribution line. 
 
112A.2.3 For interconnection of a proposed Energy Resource to the load side of spot 
network protectors, the proposed Energy Resource must utilize an inverter-based equipment 
package and, together with the aggregated other inverter-based generation, shall not exceed the 
smaller of 5% of a spot network's maximum load or 50 kW. 
 
112A.2.4 The proposed Energy Resource, in aggregation with other generation on the 
distribution circuit, shall not contribute more than 10% to the distribution circuit's maximum 
fault current at the point on the high voltage (primary) level nearest the proposed point of change 
of ownership. 
 
112A.2.5 The proposed Energy Resource, in aggregate with other generation on the 
distribution circuit, shall not cause any distribution protective devices and equipment (including, 
but not limited to, substation breakers, fuse cutouts, and line reclosers), or Interconnection 
Customer equipment on the system to exceed 87.5% of the short circuit interrupting capability; 
nor shall the proposed interconnection be accepted  for a circuit that already exceeds 87.5% of 
the short circuit interrupting capability. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.2 Screens 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
112A.2.6 Using the table below, Transmission Provider, in consultation with the 
Interconnected Transmission Owner, shall determine the type of interconnection to a primary 
distribution line.  This screen includes a review of the type of electrical service provided to the 
Interconnecting Customer, including line configuration and the transformer connection to limit 
the potential for creating over-voltages on the Interconnected Transmission Owner’s electric 
power system due to a loss of ground during the operating time of any anti-islanding function. 
 
 
Primary Distribution Line 
Type 
Type of Interconnection to 
Primary Distribution Line 
Result/Criteria 
Three-phase, three wire 3-phase or single phase, phase-
to-phase 
Pass screen 
Three-phase, four wire Effectively-grounded 3 phase or 
Single-phase, line-to-neutral 
Pass screen 
 
 
112A.2.7 If the proposed Energy Resource is to be interconnected on single-phase shared 
secondary, the aggregate generation capacity on the shared secondary, including the proposed 
Energy Resource, shall not exceed 20 kW. 
 
112A.2.8 If the proposed Energy Resource is single-phase and is to be interconnected on a 
center tap neutral of a 240 volt service, its addition shall not create an imbalance between the two 
sides of the 240 volt service of more than 20% of the nameplate rating of the service transformer. 
 
112A.2.9 The proposed Energy Resource, in aggregate with other generation interconnected 
to the transmission side of a substation transformer feeding the circuit where the Energy 
Resource proposes to interconnect shall not exceed 10 MW in an area where there are known, or 
posted, transient stability limitations to generating units located in the general electrical vicinity 
(e.g., three or four transmission busses from the point of interconnection). 
 
112A.2.10 No construction of facilities by the Interconnected Transmission Owner on its 
own system shall be required to accommodate the Energy Resource. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.3 Results of Screens 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112A.3  Results of Screens 
 
112A.3.1 If the proposed interconnection passes the screens set forth in Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart G, section 112A.2, the proposed interconnection shall be approved and the Transmission 
Provider will undertake Reasonable Efforts to provide the Interconnection Customer with an 
executable Interconnection Service Agreement within five Business Days after the 
determination.  In the event that the Transmission Provider is unable to provide Interconnection 
Customer with an executable Interconnection Service Agreement within five Business Days, it 
shall provide Interconnection Customer with reasonable notification of the delay, including the 
reasons for the delay and the date it anticipates being able to provide the executable 
Interconnection Service Agreement. Interconnection Customer shall execute the Interconnection 
Service Agreement, request dispute resolution, or request that the Interconnection Service 
Agreement be filed unexecuted in accordance with Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 212.4. 
 
112A.3.2 If the proposed interconnection of the Energy Resource fails the screens set forth 
in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112A.2, but the Transmission Provider, in consultation with 
the Interconnected Transmission Owner, determines that the Energy Resource may nevertheless 
be interconnected consistent with safety, reliability, and power quality standards, the 
Transmission Provider will undertake Reasonable Efforts to provide the Interconnection 
Customer an executable Interconnection Service Agreement within five Business Days after such 
determination.  In the event that the Transmission Provider is unable to provide Interconnection 
Customer with an executable Interconnection Service Agreement within five Business Days, it 
shall provide Interconnection Customer with reasonable notification of the delay, including the 
reasons for the delay and the date it anticipates being able to provide the executable 
Interconnection Service Agreement.  Interconnection Customer shall execute the Interconnection 
Service Agreement, request dispute resolution, or request that the Interconnection Service 
Agreement be filed unexecuted in accordance with Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 212.4. 
 
112A.3.3 If the proposed interconnection of the Energy Resource fails the screens set forth 
in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112A.2, but the Transmission Provider does not or cannot 
determine from the initial review that the Energy Resource may nevertheless be interconnected 
consistent with safety, reliability, and power quality standards unless the Interconnection 
Customer is willing to consider minor modifications or further study, the Transmission Provider 
shall provide the Interconnection Customer with the opportunity to attend a customer options 
meeting.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.4 Customer Options Meeting 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112A.4  Customer Options Meeting 
 
112A.4.1 If the Transmission Provider determines that the Interconnection Request cannot 
be approved without:  (1) minor modifications at minimal cost; (2) a supplemental study or other 
additional studies or actions; or (3) incurring at significant cost to address safety, reliability, or 
power quality problems, the Transmission Provider shall notify the Interconnection Customer of 
that determination within five Business Days and provide copies of all data and analyses 
underlying its conclusion.  Within ten Business Days of the Transmission Provider's 
determination, the Transmission Provider shall offer to convene a customer options meeting with 
the Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner to review possible Customer Facility 
modifications or the screens analysis and related results, to determine what further steps are 
needed to permit the Energy Resource to be connected safely and reliably.  At the time of 
notification of the Transmission Provider's determination, or at the customer options meeting, the 
Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner, as applicable, shall: 
 
112A.4.1.1 Offer to perform facility modifications or minor modifications to the 
Transmission System (e.g., changing meters, fuses, relay settings) and provide a non-binding 
good faith estimate of the limited cost to make such modifications to the Transmission System.  
If the Interconnection Customer agrees to pay for the modifications to the Transmission 
Provider’s system, the Transmission Provider will provide the Interconnection Customer with an 
executable Interconnection Service Agreement within ten Business Days of the customer options 
meeting; or 
 
112A.4.1.2 Offer to perform a supplemental review in accordance with Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart G, section 112A.5, and provide a non-binding good faith estimate of the costs of such 
review; or 
 
112A.4.1.3 Obtain the Interconnection Customer's agreement to continue evaluating the 
Interconnection Request under Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 111 or Tariff, Part IV, Subpart 
G, section 112 (irrespective of the resource size limitations stated therein), as applicable. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.5 Supplemental Review 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112A.5  Supplemental Review 
 
112A.5.1 To accept the offer of a supplemental review, the Interconnection Customer shall 
agree in writing, and submit a deposit for the estimated costs of the supplemental review in the 
amount of the Transmission Provider’s good faith estimate of the costs of such review 
(recognizing that such amount may be adjusted by the amount of deposits already held by the 
Transmission Provider in connection with the Interconnection Request) both within 15 Business 
Days of the offer. If the written agreement and additional deposit (if required) have not been 
received by the Transmission Provider within that timeframe, the Interconnection Request shall 
continue to be evaluated under Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 111 or Tariff, Part IV, Subpart 
G, section 112 (irrespective of the resource size limitation set forth therein) unless it is 
withdrawn by the Interconnection Customer.   
 
112A.5.2 The Interconnection Customer may specify the order in which the Transmission 
Provider will complete the screens in section 112A.5.4 below.   
 
112A.5.3 Within 30 Business Days following receipt of the deposit for a supplemental 
review, the Transmission Provider shall: (1) perform a supplemental review using the screens set 
forth below; (2) notify, in writing, the Interconnection Customer of the results; and (3) include 
with the notification copies of the analysis and data underlying the Transmission Provider’s 
determinations under the screens.  Unless the Interconnection Customer provided instructions for 
how to respond to the failure of any of the supplemental review screens below at the time the 
Interconnection Customer accepted the offer of supplemental review, the Transmission Provider 
shall notify the Interconnection Customer following the failure of any of the screens, or if it is 
unable to perform the screen in section 112A.5.3.1 below, within two Business Days of making 
such a determination to obtain the Interconnection Customer’s permission to: (1) continue 
evaluating the proposed interconnection under this section 112A.5.3; (2) terminate the 
supplemental review and continue evaluating the Energy Resource under Tariff, Part IV, Subpart 
G, section 111 or Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112 (irrespective of the resource size 
limitation set forth therein), as applicable; or (3) terminate the supplemental review upon 
withdrawal of the Interconnection Request by the Interconnection Customer. 
 
112A.5.3.1 Minimum Load Screen:  Where 12 months of line section minimum load 
data (including onsite load but not station service load served by the proposed small 
Energy Resource) are available, can be calculated, can be estimated from existing data, or 
determined from a power flow model, the aggregate Generating Facility capacity on the 
line section is less than 100% of the minimum load for all line sections bounded by 
automatic sectionalizing devices upstream of the proposed small Energy Resource. If 
minimum load data is not available, or cannot be calculated, estimated or determined, the 
Transmission Provider shall include the reason(s) that it is unable to calculate, estimate or 
determine minimum load in its supplemental review results notification under this section 
112A.5.3. 
 
112A.5.3.1.1 The type of generation used by the proposed Energy Resource will 
be taken into account when calculating, estimating, or determining circuit or line 
section minimum load relevant for the application of this section 112A.5.3.1.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.5 Supplemental Review 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
Solar photovoltaic (PV) generation systems with no battery storage use daytime 
minimum load (i.e., 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. for fixed panel systems and 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
for PV systems utilizing tracking systems), while all other generation uses 
absolute minimum load. 
 
112A.5.3.1.2 When this screen is being applied to an Energy Resource that 
services some station service load, only the net injection into the Transmission 
Provider’s electric system will be considered as part of the aggregate generation. 
 
112A.5.3.1.3 Transmission Provider will not consider as part of the aggregate 
generation for purposes of this screen generating facility capacity known to be 
already reflected in the minimum load data. 
 
112A.5.3.2 Voltage and Power Quality Screen:  In aggregate with existing generation 
on the line section: (1) the voltage regulation on the line section can be maintained in 
compliance with relevant requirements under all system conditions; (2) the voltage 
fluctuation is within acceptable limits as defined by Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers (IEEE) Standard 1453, or utility practice similar to IEEE Standard 1453; and 
(3) the harmonic levels meet IEEE Standard 519 limits. 
 
112A.5.3.3 Safety and Reliability Screen: The location of the proposed small Energy 
Resource and the aggregate generation capacity on the line section do not create impacts 
to safety or reliability that cannot be adequately addressed without application of the 
Study Process. The Transmission Provider shall give due consideration to the following 
and other factors in determining potential impacts to safety and reliability in applying this 
screen. 
 
112A.5.3.3.1 Whether the line section has significant minimum loading levels 
dominated by a small number of customers (e.g., several large commercial 
customers). 
 
112A.5.3.3.2  Whether the loading along the line section is uniform or even. 
 
112A.5.3.3.3  Whether the proposed small Energy Resource is located in close 
proximity to the substation (i.e., less than 2.5 electrical circuit miles), and whether 
the line section from the substation to the Point of Interconnection is a Mainline 
rated for normal and emergency ampacity. 
 
112A.5.3.3.4 Whether the proposed small Energy Resource incorporates a time 
delay function to prevent reconnection of the generator to the system until system 
voltage and frequency are within normal limits for a prescribed time. 
 
112A.5.3.3.5 Whether operational flexibility is reduced by the proposed small 
Energy Resource, such that transfer of the line section(s) of the small Energy 
Resource to a neighboring distribution circuit/substation may trigger overloads or 
voltage issues. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112A Permanent or 
Temporary Energy Resources of 2 MW or --> OATT 112A.5 Supplemental Review 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
 
112A.5.3.3.6 Whether the proposed small Energy Resource employs equipment 
or systems certified by a recognized standards organization to address technical 
issues such as, but not limited to, islanding, reverse power flow, or voltage 
quality. 
 
112A.5.3.4 If the proposed interconnection passes the supplemental screens in sections 
112A.5.3.1, 112A.5.3.2, and 112A.5.3.3 above, the Interconnection Request shall be approved 
and the Transmission Provider will provide the Interconnection Customer with an executable 
Interconnection Service Agreement within the timeframes established in sections 112A.5.3.4.1 
and 112A.5.3.4.2 below.  If the proposed interconnection fails any of the supplemental review 
screens and the Interconnection Customer does not withdraw its Interconnection Request, it shall 
continue to be evaluated under Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 111 or Tariff, Part IV, Subpart 
G, section 112 (irrespective of the resource size limitation set forth therein) consistent with 
section 112A.5.3.4.3 below 
 
112A.5.3.4.1 If the proposed interconnection passes the supplemental screens in 
sections 112A.5.3.1, 112A.5.3.2 and 112A.5.3.3 above and does not require construction 
of facilities by the Transmission Provider on its own system, the Interconnection Service 
Agreement shall be provided within ten Business Days after notification of the 
supplemental review results. 
 
112A.5.3.4.2 If interconnection facilities or minor modifications to the Transmission 
Provider’s system are required for the proposed interconnection to pass the supplemental 
screens in sections 112A.5.3.1, 112A.5.3.2, and 112A.5.3.3 above, and the 
Interconnection Customer agrees to pay for the modifications to the Transmission 
Provider’s electric system, the Interconnection Service Agreement, along with a non-
binding good faith estimate for the interconnection facilities and/or minor modifications, 
shall be provided to the Interconnection Customer within 15 Business Days after 
receiving written notification of the supplemental review results. 
 
112A.5.3.4.3 If the proposed interconnection would require more than interconnection 
facilities or minor modifications to the Transmission Provider’s system to pass the 
supplemental screens in sections 112A.5.3.1, 112A.5.3.2, and 112A.5.3.3 above, the 
Transmission Provider shall notify the Interconnection Customer, at the same time it 
notifies the Interconnection Customer with the supplemental review results, that the 
Interconnection Request shall be evaluated under Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, sections 111 
and 112 (irrespective of the resource size limitation set forth therein) unless the 
Interconnection Customer withdraws its request. 
 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112B Certified Inverter-Based Small Generating Facilities No Larger than 10 kW 
 
This section describes the procedures related to the submission and processing of requests related 
to the interconnection of Small Inverter Facilities. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.1 Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 1 
112B.1   Application 
 
An Interconnection Customer desiring the interconnection of a Small Inverter Facility must 
submit to Transmission Provider an executed Tariff, Attachment BB - Form of Interconnection 
Service Agreement for Certified Inverter-Based Generating Facility (“Small Inverter ISA”) and a 
non-refundable processing fee of $500.  Tariff, Attachment BB is available on the PJM web site.  
In the Small Inverter ISA, Interconnection Customer shall provide, among other things, (i) 
contact information for itself and any other entity that may be interfacing with Transmission 
Provider on its behalf; and (ii) the legal names of the owner(s) of the Small Inverter Facility, 
including the percentage ownership (if any) by any utility or public utility holding company, or 
by any entity owned by either.  Transmission Provider shall acknowledge that it received the 
Small Inverter ISA within five Business Days of receipt.  Transmission Provider shall use 
Reasonable Efforts consistent with the volume of the New Services Queue to notify 
Interconnection Customer within fifteen Business Days of receipt of the Small Inverter ISA that 
the Small Inverter ISA is complete or identify any deficiencies that need to be addressed, but, in 
no event shall the Transmission Provider’s response herein serve as a basis to delaying 
Transmission Provider’s compliance with the Interconnection Feasibility Study provisions of the 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2. 
 
The Interconnection Customer must submit a complete and fully executed Small Inverter ISA 
(Tariff, Attachment BB) to the Transmission Provider by March 10 for the New Services Queue 
ending March 31, and by September 10 for the New Services Queue ending September 30.  No 
Small Inverter ISA shall be accepted for the relevant New Services Queue after such dates. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.2 Verification of Interconnection 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112B.2  Verification of Interconnection 
 
Within 15 Business Days of notification to the Interconnection Customer that its Small Inverter 
ISA is complete, Transmission Provider shall notify Interconnection Customer whether its Small 
Inverter Facility can be interconnected safely and reliably. Transmission Provider shall make this 
determination using the screens set forth in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112A.  In the 
event that the Transmission Provider determines that the Small Inverter Facility can be safely 
and reliably interconnected, Transmission Provider shall tender the Small Inverter ISA to the 
Interconnected Transmission Owner for execution.  The Interconnected Transmission Owner 
shall have five Business Days to execute the Small Inverter ISA and return it to Transmission 
Provider.  Transmission Provider then will provide the Interconnected Parties with the Small 
Inverter ISA.  In the event an Interconnection Party does not execute the Small Inverter ISA, the 
Interconnection Customer may request the agreement be filed unexecuted with the FERC or 
alternative dispute resolution in accordance with Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 212.4. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.3 Certificate of Completion and Inspection 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112B.3  Certificate of Completion and Inspection 
 
112B.3.1 Upon receipt of an executed Small Inverter ISA, the Interconnection Customer 
may commence construction (including operational testing not to exceed two hours) of its Small 
Inverter Facility.  After completion of the Small Inverter Facility, Interconnection Customer shall 
provide Transmission Provider with a completed Tariff, Attachment CC - Form of Certificate of 
Completion. 
 
112B.3.2 Prior to parallel operation, Transmission Provider and/or Interconnected 
Transmission Owner may inspect the Small Inverter Facility for compliance with standards, 
which may include a witness test.  All inspections by Transmission Provider and/or the 
Interconnected Transmission Owner shall be at its own expense, within ten Business Days after 
receipt of the completed Certificate of Completion and shall take place at a time agreeable to the 
Transmission Provider and/or Interconnected Transmission Owner and the Interconnection 
Customer. Unless otherwise agreed by the Transmission Provider and/or the Interconnected 
Transmission Owner and the Interconnection Customer, if the Transmission Provider and/or the 
Interconnected Transmission Owner do not schedule an inspection of the Small Inverter Facility 
within ten Business Days after receipt of the completed Certificate of Completion, the right to 
inspection, including the witness test, is waived.  Transmission Provider and/or the 
Interconnected Transmission Owner shall provide a written statement that the Small Inverter 
Facility has passed inspection or shall notify the Interconnection Customer of what steps are 
necessary to pass inspection as soon as practicable after the inspection takes place. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.4 Interconnection and Operation 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112B.4 Interconnection and Operation 
 
112B.4.1 The Interconnection Customer may interconnect and operate the Small Inverter 
Facility after all of the following have occurred: 
 
(a) Upon completing construction, the Interconnection Customer has caused the Small 
Inverter Facility to be inspected or otherwise certified by the appropriate local electrical wiring 
inspector with jurisdiction, and 
 
(b) The Interconnection Customer provides Transmission Provider with a completed 
Certificate of Completion, and 
 
(c) In accordance with Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112B.3(b), the Transmission 
Provider and/or Interconnected Transmission Owner has either completed its inspection of the 
Small Inverter Facility to ensure that all equipment has been appropriately installed and that all 
electrical connections have been made in accordance with applicable codes or has waived such 
inspection.  
 
112B.4.2 Transmission Provider and/or the Interconnected Transmission Owner shall have 
the right to disconnect the Small Inverter Facility in the event of improper installation of the 
Small Inverter Facility, an unsatisfactory witness test, or failure to return a completed Certificate 
of Completion. 
 
112B.4.3 Revenue quality metering equipment must be installed at the Small Inverter 
Facility and tested in accordance with applicable ANSI standards.  Prior to parallel operation of 
the Small Inverter Facility, Transmission Provider and/or Interconnected Transmission Owner 
may schedule appropriate metering replacement, if necessary. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.5 Safe Operations and Maintenance 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
112B.5 Safe Operations and Maintenance 
 
The Interconnection Customer shall be fully responsible to operate, maintain, and repair the 
Small Inverter Facility as required to ensure that it complies at all times with the interconnection 
standards to which it has been certified. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.6 Access 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
112B.6 Access 
 
Transmission Provider and/or the Interconnected Transmission Owner shall have ready access to 
the disconnecting means and metering equipment of the Small Inverter Facility at all times. 
Transmission Provider and/or Interconnected Transmission Owner shall provide reasonable 
notice to the Interconnection Customer when possible prior to using its right of access.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.7 Disconnection 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112B.7  Disconnection 
 
112B.7.1 The Transmission Provider and/or the Interconnected Transmission Owner may 
temporarily disconnect a Small Inverter Facility upon the following conditions: 
 
(a) For scheduled outages upon reasonable notice. 
 
(b) For unscheduled outages or emergency conditions. 
 
(c) If the Small Inverter Facility does not operate in the manner consistent with the terms and 
conditions of Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112B or applicable PJM Manuals. 
 
112B.7.2 Transmission Provider shall inform the Interconnection Customer in advance of 
any scheduled disconnection, or as is reasonable after an unscheduled disconnection. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.8 Indemnification 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112B.8  Indemnification   
 
The Transmission Provider, Interconnected Transmission Owner, and the Interconnection 
Customer shall at all times indemnify, defend, and save the other party harmless from, any and 
all damages, losses, claims, including claims and actions relating to injury to or death of any 
person or damage to property, demand, suits, recoveries, costs and expenses, court costs, 
attorney fees, and all other obligations by or to third parties, arising out of or resulting from the 
other party’s action or inactions relating to its obligations under this section 112B on behalf of 
the indemnifying party, except in cases of gross negligence or intentional wrongdoing by the 
indemnified party. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.9 Insurance 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112B.9  Insurance 
 
An Interconnection Customer interconnecting a Small Inverter Facility shall maintain 
commercially reasonable amounts of general liability insurance and additionally shall follow all 
applicable insurance requirements imposed by the state in which the Point of Interconnection is 
located.  All insurance policies must be maintained with insurers authorized to do business in 
that state.  The amount and type of insurance to be evidenced by an insurance certificate.  All 
other insurance requirements in Tariff, Attachment O, Appendix 2, section 13 and Tariff, 
Attachment P, Appendix 2, section 11 are applicable to certified inverter-based small generating 
facilities no larger than 10 kilowatts. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.10 Limitation of Liability 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
112B.10  Limitation of Liability 
 
Transmission Provider’s, Interconnected Transmission Owner’s, and Interconnection Customer’s 
liability to the other party for any loss, cost, claim, injury, liability, or expense, including 
reasonable attorney’s fees, relating to or arising from any act or omission in its performance of 
its obligations under Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112B shall be limited to the amount of 
direct damage actually incurred.  In no event shall either party be liable to the other party for any 
indirect, incidental, special, consequential, or punitive damages of any kind whatsoever, except 
as allowed under Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 112B.8. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.11 Termination 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
112B.11  Termination 
 
A Small Inverter Facility ISA and parallel operation pursuant to this section 112B may be 
terminated under the following conditions: 
 
(a) By the Interconnection Customer.  By providing written notice to the Transmission 
Provider and the Interconnected Transmission Owner. 
 
(b) By the Transmission Provider.  If the Small Inverter Facility fails to operate for any 
consecutive 12 month period or the Interconnection Customer fails to remedy a violation of the 
terms of this section 112B or the Small Inverter ISA. 
 
(c) Permanent Disconnection.  In the event that a Small Inverter ISA or parallel operation 
under this section 112B is terminated, the Transmission Provider and/or Interconnected 
Transmission Owner shall have the right to disconnect its facilities or direct the Interconnection 
Customer to disconnect its Small Inverter Facility. 
 
(d) Survival Rights.  The Small Inverter ISA shall continue in effect after termination of 
parallel operation of the Small Inverter Facility or the Small Inverter ISA to the extent necessary 
to allow or require the party[ies] to fulfill rights or obligations that arose under this section 112B 
and the Small Inverter ISA. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112B Certified Inverter-
Based Small Generating Faciliti --> OATT 112B.12 Assignment/Transfer of Ownership of the Small 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
112B.12  Assignment/Transfer of Ownership of the Small Inverter Facility 
 
A Small Inverter Facility ISA shall survive the transfer of ownership of the Small Inverter 
Facility to a new owner when the new owner agrees in writing to comply with the terms of the 
Small Inverter Facility ISA and so notifies the Transmission Provider and Interconnected 
Transmission Owner. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 112C Alternate Queue 
Process  
Effective Date: 10/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-2232-000 - Page 1 
112C  [Reserved] 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION 
 
References to section numbers in this Part V refer to sections of this Part V, unless otherwise 
specified. 
 
Preamble: 
 
Deactivation of generating units in the PJM Region shall be governed by this Part V of this 
Tariff.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 113 Notices 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
113 Notices 
 
113.1 Generation Owner Notice: 
 
When a Generation Owner desires to deactivate a generating unit located in the PJM Region, 
such Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, must provide notice of such proposed 
Deactivation in writing to the Transmission Provider at least twelve (12) months prior to the 
desired Deactivation Date.  This notice shall include an indication of whether the generating unit 
is being retired or mothballed, the desired Deactivation Date, and, if mothballing, a good faith 
estimate of the time period the generating unit would be out of service.  The desired Deactivation 
Date may be no earlier than the following: (a) April 1 of the following calendar year, if the 
Transmission Provider receives the notice between January 1 and March 31; (b) July 1 of the 
following calendar year, if the Transmission Provider receives the notice between April 1 and 
June 30; (c) October 1 of the following calendar year, if the Transmission Provider receives the 
notice between July 1 and September 30; or (d) January 1 of the second calendar year, if the 
Transmission Provider receives the notice between October 1 and December 31.  The 
Transmission Provider shall promptly provide a copy of such notice to the Market Monitoring 
Unit.  The desired Deactivation Date may be earlier than the above-referenced dates if the 
Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, (i) receives notice from a state or federal regulatory 
entity that requires or compels the Generation Owner, as a matter of law, to deactivate its 
generating unit by a date earlier than the dates permitted by this Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 (ii) 
receives such notice on a date that renders compliance with this provision infeasible; and (iii) the 
generating unit experiences a catastrophic failure as reasonably determined by the Transmission 
Provider which renders compliance with this provision infeasible. 
 
113.2 Notice of Reliability Impact: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall inform the Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, whether 
the Deactivation of the generating unit would adversely affect the reliability of the Transmission 
System (“Notice of Reliability Impact”) by the following date: (a) May 31 of the current 
calendar year, if the Transmission Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part 
V, section 113.1 between January 1 and March 31; (b) August 31 of the current calendar year, if 
the Transmission Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 
between April 1 and June 30; (c) November 30 of the current calendar year, if the Transmission 
Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 between July 1 and 
September 30; or (d) February 28 of the following calendar year, if the Transmission Provider 
received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 between October 1 and 
December 31.  In the event there are no reliability issues associated with the proposed 
Deactivation of the generating unit, the Notice of Reliability Impact shall so notify the 
Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, and the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent 
may deactivate its generating unit at any time thereafter.  The Generation Owner shall coordinate 
with the appropriate Transmission Owner and the Transmission Provider regarding the removal 
of any transmission equipment located at the generating unit proposed for Deactivation.  In the 
event the Transmission Provider determines that, in accordance with established reliability 
criteria, the Deactivation of the Generation Owner’s generating unit would adversely affect the 
reliability of the Transmission System absent upgrades to the Transmission System, the Notice of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 113 Notices 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 2 
Reliablity Impact shall notify the Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, of the reliability 
concerns.  Such Notice of Reliablity Impact shall (1) identify the specific reliability impact 
resulting from the proposed Deactivation of the generating unit; and (2) provide an initial 
estimate of the period of time it will take to complete the Transmission System reliability 
upgrades necessary to alleviate the reliability impact.  Regardless of whether the Deactivation of 
the generating unit would adversely affect the reliability of the Transmission System, the 
Generation Owner or its Designated Agent may deactivate its generating unit, subject to the 
notice requirements in Tariff, Part V, section 113.1.  Within 30 days of the Generation Owner’s 
or its Designated Agent’s receipt of the Notice of Reliability Impact identifying reliability 
concerns pursuant to this Tariff, Part V, section 113.2, the Generation Owner or its Designated 
Agent shall inform Transmission Provider whether the generating unit proposed for Deactivation 
will continue operating beyond its desired Deactivation Date during the period of construction of 
the Transmission System reliability upgrades necessary to alleviate the reliability impact 
resulting from the Deactivation of the generating unit, and if the generating unit will continue 
operating, provide the Transmission Provider with an estimate of the amount of any project 
investment and the time period the generating unit would be out of service for repairs, if any, that 
would be required to keep the unit in, or return the unit to, operation.  For generating units that 
will continue operating beyond their desired Deactivation Dates, the Transmission Provider shall 
(a) within 45 days of the Transmission Provider issuing the Notice of Reliability Impact pursuant 
to this Tariff, Part V, section 113.2, provide an updated estimate of the period of time it will take 
to complete the Transmission System upgrades necessary to alleviate the reliability impact; and 
(b) within 60 days of the Transmission Provider issuing the Notice of Reliability Impact pursuant 
to this Tariff, Part V, section 113.2, post on its internet site full details of the transmission 
upgrades necessary to alleviate the reliability impact that would result from the  Deactivation of 
the generating unit.  Upon receipt of notification from the Transmission Provider that 
Deactivation of the generating unit would cause reliability concerns, the Generation Owner shall 
immediately be entitled to file with the Commission a cost of service rate to recover the entire 
cost of operating the generating unit until such time as the generating unit is deactivated pursuant 
to this Part V (“Cost of Service Recovery Rate”).  In the alternative, the Generation Owner may 
elect to receive the Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit provided under this Part V. 
 
113.3 Subsequent Deactivation Notice for Generating Units Continuing to Operate: 
 
In the event that a Generation Owner or its Designated Agent, which has informed Transmission 
Provider pursuant to section 113.2 that a generating unit will continue operating, desires to 
deactivate such generating unit prior to the completion date of the Transmission System 
reliability upgrades necessary to alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the Deactivation of 
the generating unit, or the date that the Transmission Provider otherwise determines, in 