[ATTACHMENT M-2 - Part 2 of 2]

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-2 (PPL Electric Utilities Corp.) 
Effective Date: 4/4/2022 - Docket #: ER22-991-001 - Page 4 
B. Settlement A 
1. PPL Electric receives hourly interval customer usage data and aggregates 
customer usage by LSE. 
2. When hourly interval customer usage data is not available, PPL Electric calculates 
the estimated hourly load responsibility based on the customer’s assigned load 
profile and the reconciliation factor initially mentioned above. 
a. PPL Electric assigns new customers the default scale factors for their rate 
class and assigned load profile. 
b. The load profiles used by PPL Electric for this purpose are split into 
various seasons and day-types. 
3. PPL Electric adjusts all calculations for losses and then aggregates the resulting 
estimated hourly load obligations by LSE. 
Following the above, for all customers, PPL Electric allocates any existing Unaccounted-For 
Energy to all customers by load share ratio of hourly settled load and adds this to the estimated 
hourly load responsibilities. 
Finally, PPL Electric aggregates the hourly energy obligations by LSE and subsequently by PJM 
Contract Number and reports the resulting energy schedules to PJM. 
C. Settlement B 
PPL Electric uses the customer’s actual interval data to determine the associated hourly load 
obligations, and then adjusts for losses. 
PPL Electric then calculates a “bottom-up” load shape for the energy delivery month being 
reconciled and compares that shape with a load shape comprised of actual metered PPL Zone 
load. PPL Electric considers any resulting variance as being Unaccounted-For Energy for that 
hour and allocates it to hourly load obligations as appropriate. 
PPL Electric then calculates the difference between the “day after” estimated load obligations 
previously determined in Settlement A and the final hourly load obligations for Settlement B, 
aggregating the resulting variances by LSE and subsequently by PJM Contract Number. PPL 
Electric then reports the resulting energy variances to PJM. PJM incorporates the variances as 
adjustments within its market settlement processes with LSEs. 
If adjustments are made to the Hourly Load of a LSE in the PPL Zone after this load 
reconciliation, PPL Electric may calculate the financial value of the adjustment and report that 
value to PJM. PPL Electric will also allocate the equal and opposite financial value to all LSEs in 
the PPL Zone, on a load-ratio share basis, and report the adjustments to PJM. PJM will include 
any adjustments in the next monthly billing statement issued by PJM to the affected LSE(s). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment M-3 
Effective Date: 8/11/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2046-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT 
M-3 
ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES FOR PLANNING 
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECTS AND ASSET MANAGEMENT PROJECTS 
 
(a) Applicability.  Each Transmission Owner shall be responsible for planning and 
constructing in accordance with Schedule 6 of the Operating Agreement as provided in this 
Attachment M-3, to the extent applicable, (i) Asset Management Projects, as defined herein,  
(ii) Supplemental Projects, as defined in section 1.42A.02 of the Operating Agreement, and 
(iii) any other transmission expansion or enhancement of Transmission Facilities that is not 
planned by PJM to address one or more of the following planning criteria: 
1. NERC Reliability Standards (which includes Applicable Regional Entity 
reliability standards);  
2. Individual Transmission Owner planning criteria as filed in FERC Form No. 715 
and posted on the PJM website, provided that the Additional Procedures for the 
Identification and Planning of EOL Needs, set forth in section (d), shall apply, as 
applicable; 
3. Criteria to address economic constraints in accordance with section 1.5.7 of the 
Operating Agreement or an agreement listed in Schedule 12-Appendix B; 
4. State Agreement Approach expansions or enhancements in accordance with 
section 1.5.9(a)(ii) of the Operating Agreement; or 
5. An expansion or enhancement to be addressed by the RTEP Planning Process 
pursuant to section (d)(2) of this Attachment M-3 in accordance with RTEP 
Planning Process procedures in Schedule 6 of the Operating Agreement. 
This Attachment M-3 shall not apply to CIP-014 mitigation projects that are subject to 
Attachment M-4. 
(b) Definitions.   
1. Asset Management Project. “Asset Management Project” shall mean any 
modification or replacement of a Transmission Owner’s Transmission Facilities 
that results in no more than an Incidental Increase in transmission capacity 
undertaken to perform maintenance, repair, and replacement work, to address an 
EOL Need, or to effect infrastructure security, system reliability, and automation 
projects the Transmission Owner undertakes to maintain its existing electric 
transmission system and meet regulatory compliance requirements.  
2. Attachment M-3 Project.  “Attachment M-3 Project” means (i) an Asset 
Management Project that affects the connectivity of Transmission Facilities that 
are included in the Transmission System, affects Transmission Facility ratings or 
significantly changes the impedance of Transmission Facilities; (ii) a 
Supplemental Project; or (iii) any other expansion or enhancement of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment M-3 
Effective Date: 8/11/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2046-000 - Page 2 
Transmission Facilities that is not excluded from this Attachment M-3 under any 
of clauses (1) through (5) of section (a).  “Attachment M-3 Project” does not 
include a project to address Form No. 715 EOL Planning Criteria. 3.
 Incidental Increase.  “Incidental Increase” shall mean an increase in 
transmission capacity achieved by advancements in technology and/or 
replacements consistent with current Transmission Owner design standards, 
industry standards, codes, laws or regulations, which is not reasonably severable 
from an Asset Management Project. A transmission project that results in more 
than an Incidental Increase in transmission capacity is an expansion or 
enhancement of Transmission Facilities.  
4. Transmission Facilities.  “Transmission Facilities” shall have the meaning set 
forth in the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, section 1.27. 
5. EOL Need.  “EOL Need” shall mean a need to replace a transmission line 
between breakers operating at or above 100 kV or a transformer, the high side of 
which operates at or above 100 kV and the low side of which is not connected to 
distribution facilities, which the Transmission Owner has determined to be near 
the end of its useful life, the replacement of which would be an Attachment M-3 
Project. 
6. Candidate EOL Needs List. “Candidate EOL Needs List” shall have the meaning 
ascribed to it in section (d)(1)(iii). 
7. Form No. 715 EOL Planning Criteria. “Form No. 715 EOL Planning Criteria” 
shall mean planning criteria filed by a Transmission Owner in FERC Form No. 
715 to address EOL Needs.  No Transmission Owner may be compelled to file a 
Form No. 715 EOL Planning Criteria not required to be filed pursuant to FERC 
regulations applicable to Form No. 715. 
8. Attachment M-3 EOL Planning Criteria.  “Attachment M-3 EOL Planning 
Criteria” shall mean planning criteria utilized by a Transmission Owner under 
Attachment M-3 to address EOL Needs. 
9. PJM Planning Criteria Need.  “PJM Planning Criteria Need” shall mean a need to 
plan a transmission expansion or enhancement of Transmission Facilities other 
than those reserved to each Transmission Owner in accordance with section (a). 
10. RTEP Planning Process.  “RTEP Planning Process” shall mean the process by 
which PJM develops the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan under Schedule 6 
of the Operating Agreement. 
(c) Procedures for Review of Attachment M-3 Projects.  The following procedures shall 
be applicable to the planning of Attachment M-3 Projects:  
 
1. Review of Attachment M-3 Projects. As described in sections 1.3(c) and (d) of 
Schedule 6 of the Operating Agreement, the Subregional RTEP Committees 
shall be responsible for the review of Attachment M-3 Projects. The Subregional 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment M-3 
Effective Date: 8/11/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2046-000 - Page 3 
RTEP Committees shall have a meaningful opportunity to participate and 
provide feedback, including written comments, throughout the transmission 
planning process for Attachment M-3 Projects. Disputes shall be resolved in 
accordance with the procedures set forth at Schedule 5 of the Operating 
Agreement. For purposes of this section (c), reference to the Subregional RTEP 
Committees shall be deemed to include the Transmission Expansion Advisory 
Committee (TEAC) when the TEAC reviews Attachment M-3 Projects in 
accordance with these procedures. 
 
2. Review of Assumptions and Methodology. In accordance with sections 1.3(d), 
1.5.4(a), and 1.5.6(b) and 1.5.6(c) of Schedule 6 of the Operating Agreement, 
each Subregional RTEP Committee shall schedule and facilitate a minimum of 
one Subregional RTEP Committee meeting to review the criteria, assumptions, 
and models Transmission Owners propose to use to plan and identify Attachment 
M-3 Projects (Assumptions Meeting). Each Transmission Owner shall provide 
the criteria, assumptions, and models to PJM for posting at least 20 days in 
advance of the Assumptions Meeting to provide Subregional RTEP Committee 
Participants sufficient time to review this information. Stakeholders may provide 
comments on the criteria, assumptions, and models to the Transmission Owner 
for consideration either prior to or following the Assumptions Meeting. The 
Transmission Owner shall review and consider comments that are received 
within 10 days of the Assumptions Meeting and may respond or provide 
feedback as appropriate. 
 
3. Review of System Needs. No fewer than 25 days after the Assumptions 
Meeting, each Subregional RTEP Committee shall schedule and facilitate a 
minimum of one Subregional RTEP Committee meeting per planning cycle to 
review the identified criteria violations and resulting system needs, if any, that 
may drive the need for an Attachment M-3 Project (Needs Meeting). Each 
Transmission Owner will review the identified system needs and the drivers of 
those needs, based on the application of its criteria, assumptions, and models that 
it uses to plan Attachment M-3 Projects. The Transmission Owners shall share 
and post their identified criteria violations and drivers no fewer than 10 days in 
advance of the Needs Meeting. Stakeholders may provide comments on the 
criteria violations and drivers to the Transmission Owner for consideration prior 
to, at, or following the Needs Meeting. The Transmission Owner shall review 
and consider comments that are received within 10 days of the Needs Meeting 
and may respond or provide feedback as appropriate. 
 
4. Review of Potential Solutions. No fewer than 25 days after the Needs Meeting, 
each Subregional RTEP Committee shall schedule and facilitate a minimum of 
one Subregional RTEP Committee meeting per planning cycle to review 
potential solutions for the identified criteria violations (Solutions Meeting). The 
Transmission Owners shall share and post their potential solutions, as well as 
any alternatives identified by the Transmission Owners or stakeholders, no fewer 
than 10 days in advance of the Solutions Meeting. Stakeholders may provide 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment M-3 
Effective Date: 8/11/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2046-000 - Page 4 
comments on the potential solutions to the Transmission Owner for 
consideration either prior to or following the Solutions Meeting. The 
Transmission Owner shall review and consider comments that are received 
within 10 days of the meeting and may respond or provide feedback as 
appropriate. 
 
5. Submission of Attachment M-3 Projects. Each Transmission Owner will 
finalize for submittal to the Transmission Provider Attachment M-3 Projects for 
inclusion in the Local Plan in accordance with section 1.3 of Schedule 6 of the 
Operating Agreement and the schedule established by the Transmission 
Provider.  Stakeholders may provide comments on the Attachment M-3 Projects 
in accordance with section 1.3 of Schedule 6 of the PJM Operating Agreement 
before the Local Plan is integrated into the Regional Transmission Expansion 
Plan.  Stakeholders shall have at least 10 days to comment on the Local Plan 
after the solutions selected by the Transmission Owner for inclusion in the Local 
Plan are posted. Each Transmission Owner shall review and consider comments 
that are received at least 10 days before the Local Plan is submitted for 
integration into the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan. 
 
6. Information Relating to Attachment M-3 Projects. Information relating to 
each Transmission Owner’s Attachment M-3 Projects will be provided in 
accordance with, and subject to the limitations set forth in, section 1.5.4 of 
Schedule 6 of the Operating Agreement. Local Plan Information will be provided 
to and posted by the Office of Interconnection as set forth in section 1.5.4(e) of 
Schedule 6 of the Operating Agreement. 
 
7. No Limitation on Additional Meetings and Communications or Use of 
Attachment M-3 For Other Transmission Projects.  
 
i. Nothing in this Attachment M-3 precludes any Transmission Owner from 
agreeing with stakeholders to additional meetings or other 
communications regarding Attachment M-3 Projects, in addition to the 
Subregional RTEP Committee process.   
ii. Nothing in this Attachment M-3 precludes a Transmission Owner from 
using the procedures set forth in section (c) to solicit stakeholder input in 
the planning of Transmission Facilities not subject to this section (c) or 
the RTEP Planning Process. 
 
(d) Additional Procedures for the Identification and Planning of EOL Needs.  
1. EOL Need Planning Criteria Documentation and Identification 
i. Each PJM Transmission Owner shall develop documentation for its 
Attachment M-3 EOL Planning Criteria and/or its Form 715 EOL 
Planning Criteria through which each identifies EOL Needs.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment M-3 
Effective Date: 8/11/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2046-000 - Page 5 
ii. Each Transmission Owner’s Attachment M-3 EOL Planning Criteria 
and/or Form 715 EOL Planning Criteria shall be clearly and separately 
delineated and presented by the Transmission Owner at least once 
annually pursuant to section (c)(2) and/or in its FERC Form No. 715 at a 
meeting of the TEAC. 
iii. Annually, each Transmission Owner will provide to PJM a Candidate 
EOL Needs List comprising its non-public confidential, non-binding 
projection of up to 5 years of EOL Needs that it has identified under the 
Transmission Owner’s processes for identification of EOL Needs 
documented under section (d)(1)(i).  Each Transmission Owner may 
change its projection as it deems necessary and will update it annually.  
Any Candidate EOL Needs List provided to PJM shall remain 
confidential within PJM, except to the extent necessary for PJM to make 
the determination referenced in clause (a) of section (d)(2)(ii). 
2. Coordination of EOL Needs Planning With PJM Planning Criteria Needs. 
i. If, as part of the RTEP Planning Process, PJM initially determines that a 
substantial electrical overlap exists such that a single Solution may 
address a validated PJM Planning Criteria Need(s) identified during the 
current PJM planning cycle under the RTEP Planning Process and 
address a projected EOL Need on the Candidate EOL Needs List, which 
the relevant Transmission Owner has confirmed remains a projected EOL 
Need, the relevant Transmission Owner shall consult with PJM regarding 
such potential overlap. 
ii. If, (a) PJM determines through the RTEP Planning Process that a proposed 
Required Transmission Enhancement would more efficiently and cost-
effectively address the identified PJM Planning Criteria Need and may, as 
well, address the projected EOL Need confirmed under section (d)(2)(i), 
and (b) the proposed Required Transmission Enhancement is not a 
solution proposed by the Transmission Owner pursuant to section (c)(4), 
and (c) the Transmission Owner determines that the projected EOL Need 
is not met by the proposed Required Transmission Enhancement and 
determines that it will plan an Attachment M-3 Project to address the 
projected EOL Need or propose a project to address the Form No. 715 
EOL Planning Criteria, the Transmission Owner will provide 
documentation to PJM and stakeholders on the rationale supporting its 
determination at the next appropriate meeting of the TEAC or Subregional 
RTEP Committee that considered the proposed Required Transmission 
Enhancement. 
(e) Modifications. This Attachment M-3 may only be modified under section 205 of the 
Federal Power Act if the proposed modification has been authorized by the PJM 
Transmission Owners Agreement-Administrative Committee in accordance with 
section 8.5 of the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-4 Procedures for Mitigation of Supp Projec 
Effective Date: 3/17/2020 - Docket #: ER20-841-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT M-4 
 
SPECIAL PROCEDURES SOLELY APPLICABLE TO PLANNING OF CIP-014 
MITIGATION SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECTS 
 
a) Purpose, Limited Scope, Sunset, and Definitions.  Under NERC Reliability Standard 
CIP-014-2 (“CIP-014”), as it may be redesignated from time to time, Transmission 
Owners are required to develop and implement physical security plans to protect certain 
critical transmission stations and substations.  This Attachment M-4 is to identify an 
efficient and cost-effective process for the elimination of such stations and substations as 
CIP-014 facilities through Supplemental Projects without the level of public disclosure of 
the existence, location, exact number, and vulnerabilities associated with the CIP-014 
facilities that would otherwise be required pursuant to Attachment M-3.  The 
Supplemental Projects that are to be planned for the elimination of CIP-014 stations and 
substations in accordance with this Attachment M-4, defined below as CIP-014 
mitigation projects (“CMP”) in Step 1 of this Attachment M-4, are removed from the 
Attachment M-3 public planning process in order to ensure that security is maintained 
while also providing reasonable transparency into the planning process and justification 
for CMPs.  This Attachment M-4 mechanism is a limited alternative to the Attachment 
M-3 process both in scope and duration, is narrowly tailored to meet security needs, and 
provides for vital roles by both PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) and State 
Commissions in all CMP Process Steps, as set forth below.  Notwithstanding the 
procedures provided for in Attachment M-3 or other planning requirements with respect 
to all other Supplemental Projects, including proposed project reviews by the 
Transmission Expansion Advisory Committee or Subregional RTEP Committees and 
inclusion in the Local Plan, this Attachment M-4 provides special targeted procedures 
that the Transmission Owners and the unaffiliated verifying entity as defined in NERC 
CIP-014 (currently, PJM), shall follow in connection with CMPs, which have the specific 
purpose of removing transmission stations or substations from the list of CIP-014 
facilities, within the limited period for which this Attachment M-4 shall be in effect 
pursuant to the Sunset provision and Step 1 of this Attachment M-4.  Other than to the 
extent that CMP information is included in models maintained by the Transmission 
Provider, this information shall be made available to the public during the planning and 
construction of the CMP only under the confidentiality provisions described in Steps 8 
and 10 below.  Provisions for confidential consultations with State Commissions during 
this process are also included herein. 
 
b) CMP Process Steps.  The process under this Attachment M-4 consists of the following 
steps: 
 
1. Definition of CMPs.  For purposes of this Attachment M-4, a CMP shall mean a 
“Supplemental Project,” as defined in the Operating Agreement, Section 1.42A.02, 
that is (a) designed specifically to remove a transmission station or substation from 
the list of CIP-014 facilities identified as of September 30, 2018 as requiring a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-4 Procedures for Mitigation of Supp Projec 
Effective Date: 3/17/2020 - Docket #: ER20-841-000 - Page 2 
documented physical security plan (“CIP-014 List”); and (b) reviewed by PJM in 
accordance with Step 4 of this Attachment M-4.  The intent is to complete CMPs no 
later than five (5) years after the date that the Commission issues an Order accepting 
this Attachment M-4. 
2. Limitation on the Number of CMPs.  The number of stations and substations 
throughout the PJM region eligible for CMPs will not exceed 20, the maximum 
allowable under the finite list referred to in Step 1 of this Attachment M-4.  The 
process set forth in this Attachment M-4 shall be in effect and available only as to 
CMPs designed specifically to remove a transmission station or substation from the 
list of CIP-014 facilities as it exists on September 30, 2018 and will cease to apply to 
any transmission station or substation if it is removed or eliminated from that list 
immediately upon such removal or elimination. 
3. Transmission Owner Deliberative Process.  A Transmission Owner will submit to 
PJM: 
A. Potential Solutions.  The potential alternative means of eliminating a 
transmission station or substation from the CIP-014 List; and 
 
B. Preferred Solution.  Identification from among the Potential Solutions the 
solution that in the view of the Transmission Owner constitutes the more efficient 
or cost-effective solution to enable the transmission station or substation to be 
removed from the list of CIP-014 facilities along with an explanation of its 
Preferred Solution that addresses the following: 
 
i. The customer impact that would result from the loss of the transmission 
station or substation on the CIP-014 List, taking into account any plans for 
recovering from the loss of the transmission station or substation that could 
help to restore all or some of the load that was lost, the amount of time that it 
would take for such load to be restored and the nature of the load to be 
recovered or not able to be recovered; 
ii. Whether there are distribution system-level solutions to eliminate the 
transmission station or substation from the CIP-014 List; and 
iii. Whether the Preferred Solution requires new or expanded right-of-way.   
4. PJM Review and Assessment. 
 
A. PJM Review.  Upon receiving the Preferred Solution and Potential Solutions from 
a Transmission Owner pursuant to Step 3 above, PJM (or consultants selected by 
PJM) shall evaluate those solutions.  PJM shall report its findings to the 
Transmission Owner in writing and either: (i) advise that the Preferred Solution is 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-4 Procedures for Mitigation of Supp Projec 
Effective Date: 3/17/2020 - Docket #: ER20-841-000 - Page 3 
the more efficient or cost effective solution from among the Preferred Solutions 
and Potential Solutions; (ii) suggest modifications to any of the Preferred Solution 
or Potential Solutions that will permit PJM to advise that one of them is the more 
efficient or cost effective solution; or (iii) advise that a CMP solution not be 
pursued.  PJM’s report of its findings shall include an explanation of the basis for 
its advice.  
 
B. PJM Assessment and Verification.  For any CMP project ultimately selected for 
construction by the Transmission Owner (“Proposed CMP”), PJM shall assess 
and verify (or explain its inability to verify) that the project: 
 
i. Will result in removal of one or more transmission stations or substations 
from the CIP-014 List; 
ii. Does not remove transmission station(s) or substation(s) from the CIP-014 
List that would otherwise be removed from the list through the current 
Regional Transmission Expansion Planning Process under the Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 6 (“RTEP Process”);   
iii. Does not provide a solution to address a reliability, operational performance, 
market efficiency or public policy need that would otherwise be addressed 
through the current RTEP Process;  
iv. Will not result in another transmission station or substation being added to the 
CIP-014 List; and   
v. Does not result in reliability or operational performance criteria violations 
under the RTEP Process.  
PJM shall report its assessment of these factors to the Transmission Owner in writing.  
No CMP solution shall proceed to another step in the Attachment M-4 process until 
this Step 4 has been completed.  Once PJM and the Transmission Owner have agreed 
that the report is final, PJM’s report will be provided to the affected State 
Commission, at that agency’s option. 
5. Consultation with State Commissions.  The Transmission Owner shall ensure that all 
consultations with a State Commission as set forth in this Step 5, are subject to 
appropriate confidential safeguards.  The Transmission Owner shall only be required 
to engage in consultations with a State Commission with respect to the planning and 
construction of a CMP under Step 5 and the Transmission Owner and PJM shall only 
consult with or provide information to a State Commission under Steps 5 or 6, if and 
to the extent that the Transmission Owner can ensure that such consultations and 
information will be subject to such appropriate confidential safeguards. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-4 Procedures for Mitigation of Supp Projec 
Effective Date: 3/17/2020 - Docket #: ER20-841-000 - Page 4 
A. Any Transmission Owner having submitted to PJM a Preferred Solution and 
Potential Solutions to eliminate a transmission station or substation from the CIP-
014 List pursuant to Step 3 above shall seek to meet with any State 
Commission(s) with jurisdiction in the Transmission Zones in which a CMP is 
proposed to be located.  PJM shall be invited to participate in any such meeting.  
Topics for discussion shall include, but not be limited to the considerations 
specified in CIP-014, including the need for a CMP, the Potential Solutions 
submitted to PJM, and the Transmission Owner’s Preferred Solution. 
B. Upon PJM’s completion of the review specified in Step 4 above, the Transmission 
Owner shall again seek to meet with any State Commission(s) with jurisdiction in 
the Transmission Zones in which a CMP is proposed to be located.  PJM shall be 
invited to participate in any such meeting.  Topics for discussion shall include, but 
not be limited to PJM’s review and findings, including the efficiency and cost-
effectiveness of any and all of PJM’s recommendations.  
C. After identifying and selecting its Proposed CMP pursuant to completion of Step 
4(B) above, but before construction is initiated, the Transmission Owner shall 
further seek to meet with any State Commission(s) with jurisdiction in the 
Transmission Zones in which the Proposed CMP is to be constructed.  PJM shall 
be invited to participate in any such meeting.  Topics for discussion shall include, 
but not be limited to PJM’s assessment of the factors in Step 4(B)(i) through (v) 
above, the rationale for, location of, and specifications of the Proposed CMP and 
potential siting issues, particularly those that could affect the estimated project 
cost.  To facilitate the discussion and enable an understanding of the benefits of 
costs assessed, the Transmission Owner shall be prepared to present an 
explanation of the reasons and rationale for its intention to proceed to construct its 
Proposed CMP and the reasonableness of that proposal.  The Transmission Owner 
shall be prepared to address the following: 
 
i. The customer impact that would result from the loss of the transmission 
station or substation on the CIP-014 List, taking into account any plans for 
recovering from the loss of the transmission station or substation that could 
help to restore all or some of the load that was lost, the amount of time that it 
would take for such load to be restored and the nature of the load to be 
recovered or not able to be recovered, as compared to these same factors as 
they relate to that station or substation assuming that the Proposed CMP is 
constructed; 
ii. Whether there exist distribution system-level solutions, or changes in 
operating procedures, or some combination, to eliminate the transmission 
station or substation from the CIP-014 List; 
iii. Whether the Proposed CMP requires new or expanded right-of-way; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-4 Procedures for Mitigation of Supp Projec 
Effective Date: 3/17/2020 - Docket #: ER20-841-000 - Page 5 
iv. Whether the Proposed CMP will displace costs associated with maintaining 
physical security for stations/substations on the CIP-014 List; and 
v. The estimated cost of the Proposed CMP. 
6. PJM Interim/Periodic Review and Interim Consultation with State Commissions. 
Nothing in this Attachment M-4 precludes PJM, at its sole discretion, from 
conducting additional periodic examinations to verify the continuing validity of its 
findings and assessment under Step 4, above.  Similarly, nothing in this Attachment 
M-4 precludes PJM from consulting with State Commissions in addition to those 
consultations specified in Step 5 above, with or without the participation of the 
relevant Transmission Owner. 
 
7. Project Notification and Compliance. 
A. Transmission Owner Notification to PJM.  Upon satisfaction of all parts of Step 5, 
the Transmission Owner shall notify PJM in writing that the Proposed CMP will 
be constructed and identify the location and specifications of the Proposed CMP 
selected.  The Transmission Owner shall make a reasonable effort to seek 
alternative funding to offset project costs, including but not limited to U.S. 
Department of Energy grants associated with addressing national security, critical 
infrastructure or resilience.  
B. Compliance.  The Transmission Owner will comply with all applicable licensing, 
permitting, siting, or certification requirements as well as all applicable 
proceedings for eminent domain authority. 
8. CMP Construction.  During construction of a CMP, the Transmission Owner carrying 
out such construction shall continue to take safeguards to ensure necessary 
confidentiality until the CMP is placed in service. 
 
9. CMP In-Service Placement.  A Transmission Owner shall have complied with all of 
its obligations set forth in the CMP Process Steps above before the CMP may be 
placed in-service. 
 
10. Confidentiality.  If at any step in the Attachment M-4 process, the level of needed 
confidentiality is eliminated with respect to elements of CMP information, such 
confidentiality shall be reduced or lifted.  As a precondition to any Transmission 
Owner being eligible for recovery of the costs of the CMP, the Transmission Owner 
shall provide public notice of the existence of the CMP. 
 
11. Public Review of CMP.  At no time prior to the existence of the CMP being made 
known to the public by adherence to Step 10 of this Attachment M-4 shall the costs of 
any CMP be eligible for inclusion in rates filed by any Transmission Owner.  After 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-4 Procedures for Mitigation of Supp Projec 
Effective Date: 3/17/2020 - Docket #: ER20-841-000 - Page 6 
notice of the existence of a CMP has been provided by adherence to Step 10 of this 
Attachment M-4, the Transmission Owner may propose to recover its investment in 
the CMP and the associated costs from Responsible Customers in its Zone through a 
rate, including a formula rate, in effect under the applicable Tariff, Attachment H 
similar to the cost recovery process it follows for other Supplemental Projects.  Any 
such proposal shall be subject to discovery on all matters pursuant to the procedures 
applicable under the applicable Attachment H, the Federal Power Act, and the 
Commission’s regulations, including any applicable procedures for the protection 
against disclosure of commercially sensitive information and Critical Energy 
Infrastructure Information. 
 
c) Modifications.  This Attachment M-4 may be modified under Section 205 of the Federal 
Power Act only if the proposed modification has been authorized by the PJM 
Transmission Owners Agreement-Administrative Committee in accordance with Section 
8.5 of the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement (“CTOA”). 
 
d) Sunset.  This Attachment M-4 terminates five years after the issuance date of an Order 
from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approving this Attachment M-4 for 
inclusion in the PJM Tariff; however, CMPs already under construction as of that date of 
termination may proceed and the conditions in Steps 8, 9, 10, and 11 shall remain in 
force.  For any CMP construction occurring after the sunset date, quarterly status 
briefings shall be provided to any State Commission previously consulted under Step 5 
until the CMP is placed in service pursuant to Step 9. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT N 
Effective Date: 11/17/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
