ATTACHMENT H-26A 
 
TRANSOURCE WEST VIRGINIA, LLC 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
The formula rate template (“Template”) and these Formula Rate Implementation 
Protocols (“Protocols”) together comprise the filed rate (“Formula Rate”) of Transource 
West Virginia, LLC (“Transource West Virginia”) for transmission revenue requirement 
determinations under the PJM Interconnection, LLC (“PJM”) Open Access 
Transmission Tariff (“PJM Tariff”).  Transource West Virginia shall follow the 
instructions specified in the Formula Rate to calculate annually its net revenue 
requirement, as set forth at page 1, line 10 of the Template (“Net Revenue 
Requirement”).  The Net Revenue Requirement shall be determined for January 1 to 
December 31 of a given calendar year (the “Rate Year”).  The Formula Rate shall 
become effective for recovery of Transource West Virginia’s Net Revenue Requirement 
upon the effective date for incorporation into the PJM Tariff through an appropriate 
filing with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) 
under Section 205 of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”), 16 U.S.C. § 824d (2012).     
Section 1. Annual Projection 
a. No later than September 30 preceding the first Rate Year, and each 
subsequent Rate Year, Transource West Virginia shall determine its 
projected Net Revenue Requirement for the upcoming Rate Year in 
accordance with Transource West Virginia’s Formula Rate (“Annual 
Projection”).  The Annual Projection shall include the True-up 
Adjustment described and defined in Section 2 below, if applicable.  
Transource West Virginia shall cause an electronic version of the Annual 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 2 
Projection to be posted in both a Portable Document Format (“PDF”) and 
fully-functioning Excel file at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s 
internet website and OASIS.  Such posting shall include all inputs in 
sufficient detail to identify the components of Transource West 
Virginia’s projected Net Revenue Requirement, explanations of the bases 
for the projections and input data, and sufficient detail and explanation to 
enable Interested Parties1 to replicate the calculation of the projected Net 
Revenue Requirement.  With respect to any Accounting Change (as that 
term is defined in Section 3.e.iii), Transource West Virginia shall (i) 
identify any Accounting Changes, including the initial implementation of 
an accounting standard or policy, the initial implementation of 
accounting practices for unusual or unconventional items where FERC 
has not provided specific accounting direction, correction of errors and 
prior period adjustments that impact the projected net revenue 
requirement calculation, the implementation of new estimation methods 
or policies that change prior estimates, and changes to income tax 
elections; (ii) identify items included in the projected Net Revenue 
Requirement at an amount other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair 
value adjustments); (iii) identify any reorganization or merger transaction 
during the previous year and explain the effect of  
________________________ 
1   As used in these Protocols, “Interested Parties” shall include but not be limited to: (i) any Eligible 
Customer under the PJM Tariff; (ii) any regulatory agency with rate jurisdiction over a public utility 
located within the PJM footprint; (iii) any consumer advocate authorized by state law to review and contest 
the rates for any such public utility; and (iv) any party with standing under FPA section 205 or section 206. 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 3 
the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to the projected Net Revenue 
Requirement; and (iv) provide, for each item identified pursuant to Section 1.a.i 
– iii of these Protocols, a narrative explanation of the individual impact of such 
changes on the projected Net Revenue Requirement.  If the date for making such 
posting of the Annual Projection should fall on a weekend or a holiday 
recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be made no later than the next 
business day.  Within ten (10) days of such posting, PJM shall provide notice of 
such posting via the PJM Members Committee email subscription (“PJM 
Exploder List”).  Interested Parties can subscribe to the PJM Exploder List on 
the PJM website.   
b. Together with the posting of the Annual Projection, Transource West 
Virginia shall cause to be posted on the PJM internet website and OASIS, 
and distributed to the PJM Exploder List, the time, date and location for a 
stakeholder meeting with Interested Parties in order for Transource West 
Virginia to explain its Annual Projection and to provide Interested Parties 
an opportunity to seek information and clarifications regarding the 
Annual Update (“Annual Projection Meeting”).  The Annual Projection 
Meeting shall be held no less than twenty (20) business days and no more 
than thirty (30) business days after September 30.   Transource West 
Virginia will provide remote access to the Annual Projection Meeting in 
order to ease burdens (e.g. travel costs) to ensure all interested parties 
have the opportunity to participate.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 4 
c. To the extent Transource West Virginia agrees to make changes in the 
Annual Projection for a given Rate Year, such revised Annual Projection 
shall be promptly posted at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s 
internet website and OASIS, and e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  
Changes posted prior to November 30 of the preceding Rate Year, or the 
next business day if November 30 is not a business day (or such later 
date as can be accommodated under PJM’s billing practices), shall be 
reflected in the Annual Projection for the Rate Year; changes posted after 
that date will be reflected, as appropriate, in the True-up Adjustment for 
the Rate Year.   
d. The Annual Projection, including the True-Up Adjustment, for each Rate 
Year shall be subject to review, challenge, true-up and refunds or 
surcharges with interest, to the extent and in the manner provided in these 
Protocols. 
Section 2.  True-up Adjustment 
Transource West Virginia will calculate the amount of under- or over-collection 
of its actual Net Revenue Requirement during the preceding Rate Year (“True-up 
Adjustment”) after the FERC Form No. 1 data for that Rate Year has been filed with the 
Commission.  The True-up Adjustment shall be the sum of the True-Up Adjustment 
Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(a) and the Interest on the True-Up 
Adjustment Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(b): 
a.  Transource West Virginia’s projected Net Revenue Requirement 
collected during the previous Rate Year2 will be compared to Transource 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 5 
West Virginia’s actual Net Revenue Requirement for the previous Rate 
Year calculated in accordance with Transource West Virginia’s Formula 
Rate and based upon (i) Transource West Virginia’s FERC Form No. 1 
for that same Rate Year, (ii) any FERC orders specifically applicable to 
Transource West Virginia’s calculation of its annual revenue 
requirement, (iii) the books and records of Transource West Virginia 
(which shall be maintained consistent with the FERC Uniform System of 
Accounts (“USofA”)), (iv) FERC accounting policies and practices 
applicable to the calculation of annual revenue requirements under 
formula rates, and (v) any aspects of the PJM OATT Governing 
Documents that apply to the calculation of annual revenue requirements 
under individual transmission owner formula rates,3 to determine any 
over- or under-recovery (“True-up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery”).  
Transource West Virginia will include a variance analysis of, at 
minimum, actual revenue requirement components of rate base, operating 
and maintenance expenses, depreciation expense, taxes, return on rate   
________________________ 
2  If the initial use of the Formula Rate covers only part of a calendar year, the initial projected Net Revenue 
Requirement will be divided by the number of months the Formula Rate is in effect to calculate the 
monthly projected cost of service to be collected each month of the first year.  Similarly, the actual Net 
Revenue Requirement will be divided by the number of months the rate is in effect to calculate the actual 
cost of service to be collected each month of the first year.  The first True-up Adjustment will compare the 
projected Net Revenue Requirement billed and the actual Net Revenue Requirement for that initial Rate 
Year. 
3  PJM OATT Governing Documents include the PJM OATT, Bylaws, Criteria, and Membership 
Agreements. 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 6 
base, and revenue credits as compared to the corresponding components 
in the projected revenue requirement that was calculated for the prior 
Rate Year with an explanation of material changes.     
b. Interest on any True-up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery of the actual 
Net Revenue Requirement shall be calculated in accordance with 
Attachment 6 of the Formula Rate. 
Section 3.  Annual Update 
a. On or before June 30 following each Rate Year, Transource West 
Virginia shall calculate its actual Net Revenue Requirement and the 
True-up Adjustment as described in Section 2 (“Annual Update”) for 
such Rate Year and, together with such other information described in 
this Section 3,  shall cause such Annual Update to be posted, in both a 
PDF and fully-functioning Excel format, at a publicly accessible location 
on PJM’s internet website and OASIS.  Within ten (10) days of such 
posting, PJM shall provide notice of such posting via the PJM Exploder 
List.    
b. If the date for making the Annual Update posting should fall on a 
weekend or a holiday recognized by the FERC, then the posting shall be 
due on the next business day. 
c. The date on which the last of the events listed in Section 3(a) or 3(b) 
occurs shall be that year’s “Publication Date.” 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 7 
d. Together with the posting of the Annual Update, Transource West 
Virginia shall cause to be posted on the PJM website and OASIS the 
time, date and location for a stakeholder meeting with Interested Parties 
in order for Transource West Virginia to explain its Annual Update and 
to provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and 
clarifications regarding the Annual Update (“Annual Update Meeting”). 
Notice of the Annual Update Meeting shall be provided via the PJM 
Exploder List no less than seven (7) days prior to the meeting.  The 
Annual Update Meeting shall be held no less than twenty (20) business 
days and no more than thirty (30) business days after June 30.  
Transource West Virginia will provide remote access to the Annual 
Update Meeting in order to ease burdens (e.g. travel costs) to ensure all 
interested parties have the opportunity to participate.   
e. The Annual Update posting for the Rate Year: 
(i)  Shall provide, via the Formula Rate worksheets, sufficiently 
detailed supporting documentation for data (and all adjustments 
thereto or allocations thereof) used in the Formula Rate that are 
not stated in the FERC Form No. 1;4 
_________________________________ 
4  It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations described 
therein, that each input to the Formula Rate for purposes of determining the actual Net Revenue 
Requirement for a given Rate Year will be either taken directly from the FERC Form No. 1 or reconcilable 
to the FERC Form No. 1 by the application of clearly identified and supported information.  If the 
referenced form is superseded, the successor form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as necessary to 
provide equivalent information as that provided in the superseded form.  If the referenced form is 
discontinued, equivalent information as that provided in the discontinued form shall be utilized. 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 8 
(ii) Shall provide sufficient detail and sufficient explanation to enable 
Interested Parties to replicate the calculation of the Annual True-
Up results from the FERC Form No. 1 and verify that each input 
to the Template is consistent with the requirements of the 
Formula Rate; 
(iii) Shall identify:  
a. any change in accounting that affects inputs to the Template 
or the resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate 
(“Accounting Change”), including: 
i. The initial implementation of an accounting 
standard or policy;  
ii. the initial implementation of accounting practices 
for unusual or unconventional items where FERC 
has not provided specific accounting direction; 
iii.  correction of errors and prior period adjustments 
that impact the True-Up Adjustment calculation; 
iv. the implementation of new estimation methods or 
policies that change prior estimates; and 
v. changes to income tax elections; 
b. any items included in the Annual True-Up at an amount 
other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value 
adjustments); 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 9 
c. any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous 
year and explain the effect of the accounting for such 
transaction(s) on inputs to the True-Up Adjustment; 
d. for each item identified pursuant to Sections 3.e.iii.a – c of 
these Protocols, the individual impact (in narrative format) 
of such changes on the True-Up Adjustment.  
(iv) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Sections 4, 5, and 6 of these Protocols.  
(v) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in these Protocols with respect to the 
prudence of any costs and expenditures included for recovery in 
the Annual Update; provided, however, that nothing in these 
Protocols is intended to modify the Commission’s applicable 
precedent with respect to the burden of going forward or burden 
of proof under formula rates in such prudence challenges; and 
(vi) Shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be 
subject to challenge by any Interested Party seeking to modify the 
Formula Rate (i.e., any modifications to the Formula Rate will 
require, as applicable, an FPA section 205 or section 206 filing or 
initiation of a section 206 investigation). 
f. The following Formula Rate inputs shall be stated values to be used in 
the Formula Rate until changed pursuant to an FPA section 205 or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 10 
section 206 proceeding: (i) rate of return on common equity (“ROE”); (ii) 
Post-Employment Benefits other than Pensions (“PBOP”) charges 
pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, 
Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than 
Pensions; and (iii) the depreciation and/or amortization rates as set forth 
in Attachment 10 to the Formula Rate template.   
g. Example – Timeline for 2017 Annual Update: 
On or before September 30, 2015, Transource West Virginia will 
determine the projected Net Revenue Requirement for the 2016 Rate 
Year, which is expected to be the first year that costs are recovered from 
PJM customers under the Formula Rate.  Transource West Virginia will 
post the Annual Projection for the 2016 Rate Year in accordance with 
Section 1 above.  Transource West Virginia will not determine a True-up 
Adjustment or post an Annual Update on June 30, 2016 if no costs have 
been recovered under the Formula Rate during 2015.  On or before 
September 30, 2016, Transource West Virginia will post the Annual 
Projection for the 2017 Rate Year.  On or before June 30, 2017, 
Transource West Virginia will post its first Annual Update, consisting of 
the actual Net Revenue Requirement and True-up Adjustment for the 
2016 Rate Year determined pursuant to Section 2 above.  Such True-up 
Adjustment will be reflected in the Annual Projection of the Net Revenue 
Requirement for the 2018 Rate Year posted on or before September 30, 
2017.  The Annual Update posted June 30, 2017 will be subject to the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 11 
customer review and challenge procedures described in Sections 4, 5, and 
6 of these Protocols.        
Section 4.  Annual Review Procedures 
Each Annual Update shall be subject to the following review procedures 
(“Annual Review Procedures”): 
 a. Interested Parties shall have up to the latest of one-hundred-fifty (150) 
calendar days after the Publication Date, thirty (30) calendar days after 
the receipt of all responses to timely submitted information requests 
(unless such period is extended with the written consent of Transource 
West Virginia), or thirty (30) calendar days after resolution of a dispute 
that does not result in the production of additional information (“Review 
Period”), to review the calculations and to notify Transource West 
Virginia in writing of any specific challenges to the Annual Update 
(“Preliminary Challenge”), including challenges related to Accounting 
Changes.  Transource West Virginia shall promptly cause to be posted all 
Preliminary Challenges at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s 
internet website and OASIS and a link to the website will be e-mailed to 
the PJM Exploder List. 
In the event of a Preliminary Challenge, Transource West Virginia will 
appoint a senior representative to work with the interested party (or its 
representatives) toward a resolution of the dispute.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 12 
Transource West Virginia shall respond in writing to a Preliminary 
Challenge within twenty (20) business days of receipt, and its response 
shall notify the challenging party of the extent to which Transource West 
Virginia agrees or disagrees with the challenge.  If Transource West 
Virginia disagrees with the Preliminary Challenge, its response shall 
include supporting documentation.  Transource West Virginia shall 
promptly cause to be posted responses to all Preliminary Challenges at a 
publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS and e-
mailed to the PJM Exploder List. 
b. Interested Parties shall have up to one-hundred-twenty (120) calendar 
days after each annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended 
with the written consent of Transource West Virginia) to serve 
reasonable information requests on Transource West Virginia.  
Information requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine: 
(i) the extent, effect, or impact of an Accounting Change; (ii) whether the 
True-Up Adjustment fails to include data properly recorded in 
accordance with the Protocols; (iii) the proper application of the 
Template and procedures in the Protocols; (iv) the accuracy of data and 
consistency with the Formula Rate of the changes shown in the Annual 
Update; (v) the prudence of the actual costs and expenditures; (vi) the 
effect of any change to the underlying USofA or applicable form; and 
(vii) any other information that may reasonably have substantive effect 
on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 13 
Information requests shall not solicit information concerning costs or 
allocations where the costs or allocation methods have been determined 
to be appropriate by FERC in the context of prior Transource West 
Virginia Annual Updates, except that such information requests shall be 
permitted if they (i) seek to determine if there has been a change in 
circumstances, (ii) are in connection with corrections pursuant to Section 
6, or (iii) relate to costs or allocations that have not previously been 
challenged and adjudicated by FERC.   
c. Transource West Virginia shall make a good faith effort to respond to 
information requests pertaining to the Annual Update within fifteen (15) 
business days of receipt of such requests.  Transource West Virginia will 
cause to be posted on the PJM website and OASIS all information 
requests from Interested Parties and Transource West Virginia’s 
response(s) to such requests.  Responses to information and document 
requests that include material deemed by Transource West Virginia to be 
confidential information will not be publically posted but will be made 
available to requesting parties pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to 
be executed by Transource West Virginia and the requesting party.  
To the extent Transource West Virginia and any Interested Party(ies) are 
unable to resolve disputes related to information requests submitted in 
accordance with these Annual Review Procedures, Transource West 
Virginia or the Interested Party may petition the FERC to appoint an 
Administrative Law Judge as a discovery master to resolve the discovery 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 14 
dispute(s) in accordance with these Protocols and consistent with the 
FERC’s discovery rules. 
d. Preliminary Challenges, or Formal Challenges as described in Section 5 
below, related to Accounting Changes shall be treated in the same 
manner under these Protocols as other challenges to the Annual Update.  
Failure to make a Preliminary Challenge with respect to an Accounting 
Change in an Annual Update shall not act as a bar with respect to a 
Formal Challenge with respect to that Annual Update, nor shall such 
failure bar a subsequent Preliminary Challenge related to a subsequent 
Annual Update to the extent such Accounting Change affects the 
subsequent Annual Update. 
e. If a change made by Transource West Virginia to its accounting policies, 
practices or procedures, or the application of the Formula Rate, is found 
by the FERC to be unjust, unreasonable, or unduly discriminatory or 
preferential, then the calculation of the charges to be assessed during the 
Rate Year then under review, and the charges to be assessed during any 
subsequent Rate Years, including any True-up Adjustments, shall not 
include such change, but shall include any remedy that may be prescribed 
by FERC in the exercise of its discretion as of the effective date of such 
remedy, to ensure that the Formula Rate continues to operate in a manner 
that is just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory or preferential.  
 Section 5. Resolution of Challenges 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 15 
 a. Any Interested Party may, within ninety (90) calendar days after the end 
of the Review Period (unless such period is extended with the written 
consent of Transource West Virginia to continue efforts to resolve an 
issue), file a challenge with the FERC (“Formal Challenge”).  Such 
Formal Challenge shall be submitted in the same docket as the 
informational filing described in Section 7 and shall be served on 
Transource West Virginia by electronic service on the date of such filing.  
Subject to any applicable confidentiality and Critical Energy 
Infrastructure Information restrictions, all information and 
correspondence produced by Transource West Virginia pursuant to these 
Protocols may be included in any Formal Challenge or other FERC 
proceeding relating to the Formula Rate. 
b. Formal challenge are to be filed pursuant to these Protocols, rather than 
under rule 206 and shall: 
1) Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the 
filed rate Template or Protocols;  
2)  Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed rate Tempate or 
Protocols; 
3)  Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues 
presented by the action or inaction as such relate to or affect the party 
filing the Formal Challenge, including 
a.  The extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 16 
b. Whether the True-Up Adjustment or Annual Projection fails 
to include data properly recorded in accordance with these 
Protocols;  
c. The proper application of the Template and procedures in 
these Protocols;  
d. The accuracy of the data and consistency with the Formula 
Rate of the charges shown in the True-Up Adjustment or 
Annual Projection; 
e. The prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
f. The effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of 
Accounts or the FERC Form No. 1; or  
g. Any other information that may reasonably have substantive 
effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the 
Template.  
4) Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if 
any) created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of 
the action or inaction; 
5)  State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing 
Commission proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which 
the filing party is a party, and if so, provide an explanation why 
timely resolution cannot be achieved in that forum; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 17 
6) State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request 
for stay or extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
7) Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge 
in possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, 
including, but not limited to, contracts and affidavits; and 
8) State whether the filing party utilized the Informal Challenge 
procedures described in these protocols to dispute the action or 
inaction raised by the Formal Challenge, and, if not, describe why 
not. 
c. Failure to raise an issue in a Preliminary Challenge shall not bar an 
Interested Party from raising that issue in a Formal Challenge, provided 
the Interested Party submitted a Preliminary Challenge during the 
Review Period with respect to one or more other issues. 
d. Any response by Transource West Virginia to a Formal Challenge must 
be submitted to the FERC within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of 
the filing of the Formal Challenge, and shall be served on the filing 
party(ies) and the PJM Exploder List on the date of such filing. 
e. In any Formal Challenge proceeding concerning a given year’s Annual 
Update (including corrections) or Accounting Change(s), Transource 
West Virginia shall demonstrate the justness and reasonableness of the 
rate resulting from its application of the Formula Rate by demonstrating 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 18 
that it has reasonably and accurately calculated the Annual Update and/or 
reasonably adopted and applied the Accounting Change.  
f. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to 
limit in any way the right of Transource West Virginia to file unilaterally, 
pursuant to section 205 of the FPA and the regulations thereunder, an 
application seeking changes to the Formula Rate or to any of the stated 
value inputs requiring a section 205 filing under these Protocols 
(including, but not limited to, ROE, depreciation and amortization rates, 
and PBOPs), or the right of any other party or the Commission to seek 
such changes pursuant to section 206 of the FPA and the regulations 
thereunder.  
g. Transource West Virginia may, at its discretion and at a time of its 
choosing, make a limited filing pursuant to section 205 to modify stated 
values in the Formula Rate for amortization and depreciation rates, or 
PBOP rates, or to correct obvious errors or omissions in the Formula 
Rate such as would result from changes to the FERC Form No. 1.  The 
sole issue in any such limited section 205 proceeding shall be whether 
such proposed change(s) is just and reasonable, and it shall not address 
other aspects of the Formula Rate.     
Section 6. Changes to Annual Updates  
If Transource West Virginia determines or concedes that corrections to the 
Annual Update are required, whether under Sections 4 or 5 of these Protocols, including 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 19 
but not limited to those requiring corrections to its FERC Form No. 1, or input data used 
for a Rate Year that would have affected the Annual Update for that Rate Year, 
Transource West Virginia shall promptly notify the PJM Exploder List, and cause a 
correction to the Annual Update to be posted at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s 
internet website and OASIS.  Such corrections shall be subject to review at the time they 
are made and shall be reflected in the next Annual Update, with interest.  A corrected 
posting shall reset the deadlines under Sections 4 and 5 of the Protocols for Interested 
Party review and the revised dates shall run from the posting date(s) for each of the 
corrections.  The scope of review shall be limited to the aspects of the Annual Update 
affected by the corrections.  Interest on any over- or under-recovery due to corrections 
for preceding True-up Adjustments shall be calculated monthly on such over- or under-
recovery from January 1 of the corrected Rate Year through December 31 of the Rate 
Year in which such over- or under-recovery is reflected (“Correction Period”).  That is 
equivalent to two years interest applied to over- or under- collection.  The applicable 
monthly interest rates for the Correction Period for an over-recovery or under-recovery  
shall be the annual interest rates for each month pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a  divided 
by twelve (12) for each month from the beginning of the Correction Period through 
December 31 of the Rate Year immediately preceding the Rate Year in which such over-
recovery is reflected.  
Section 7. Informational Filing 
Transource West Virginia shall submit to FERC an informational filing 
(“Informational Filing”) of its projected Net Revenue Requirement for a Rate Year, 
including the True-Up Adjustment determined during the preceding Annual Update, by 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 20 
March 15 of the Rate Year.  For example, an Informational Filing will be filed March 
15, 2018 which will include the 2018 projected Net Revenue Requirement and the 2016 
True-Up Adjustment as determined during the 2017 Annual Update process.  This 
Informational Filing must include the information that is reasonably necessary to 
determine: (1) that input data under the formula rate are properly recorded in any 
underlying workpapers; (2) that Transource West Virginia has properly applied the 
formula rate and these procedures; (3) the accuracy of data and the consistency with the 
formula rate of the Net Revenue Requirement and rates under review; (4) the extent of 
accounting changes that affect Formula Rate inputs; and (5) the reasonableness of 
projected costs.  The Informational Filing must also describe any corrections or 
adjustments made during that period, and must describe all aspects of the Annual 
Update or its inputs that are the subject of an ongoing dispute under the Informal or 
Formal Challenge procedures.  Any challenges to the implementation of the Template 
must be made through the annual review and challenge procedures described in Sections 
4 and 5 of these protocols or in a separate complaint proceeding, and not in response to 
the Informational Filing. 
Section 8. Joint Informational Meeting 
Transmission Owners with transmission projects that are subject to region-wide 
cost sharing shall endeavor to hold a joint informational meeting to enable all interested 
parties to understand how those Transmission Owners are implementing their formula 
rates for cost recovery of such projects (“Joint Informational Meeting”).  Notice of the 
Joint Informational Meeting, including the time, date, and location, shall be posted on 
the PJM website and OASIS and distributed to the PJM Exploder List no less than seven 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 21 
(7) days prior to such meeting.  Transource West Virginia will participate in Joint 
Informational Meetings once it begins development of a project for which costs are to 
be regionally allocated.   
Section 9.  Construction Work in Progress  
a. Accounting:  Transource West Virginia shall use the following 
accounting procedures to ensure that it does not recover an Allowance for 
Funds Used During Construction (“AFUDC”) with respect to any amount 
of Construction Work In Progress (“CWIP”) included in rate base. 
(i) Transource West Virginia shall assign each transmission project a 
unique Funding Project Number (“FPN”) for internal cost 
tracking purposes. 
(ii) Transource West Virginia shall record actual construction costs to 
each FPN through work orders that are coded to correspond to the 
FPN for each project for which FERC has authorized all or part of 
the CWIP balance to be included in rate base (“CWIP Project”).   
(iii) Each project-specific FPN tracking account will be programmed 
to calculate and accrue AFUDC only on the balance of CWIP that 
is not eligible for inclusion in rate base.    
(iv) For each project under construction, Transource West Virginia 
shall prepare monthly work order summaries of costs incurred 
under the associated FPN.  These summaries shall show monthly 
additions to CWIP in the FPN and, if less than 100% of the CWIP 
corresponding to the project FPN is eligible for inclusion in rate 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 22 
base, shall separately identify through FPN subaccounts (i) the 
component of the project CWIP balance included in rate base; 
and (ii) the component of the project CWIP balance that is not 
included in rate base, including capitalized AFUDC.  The 
summaries will also show any additions to plant in service.  The 
summaries shall correspond to amounts recorded in FERC 
Account 107, CWIP, which account balance will be reported on 
Transource West Virginia’s FERC Form No. 1.  Transource West 
Virginia shall use these project-specific monthly summaries as 
data inputs into the annual CWIP report prepared under Section 
7(b) and the Annual Update calculated pursuant to Section 3.  
Transource West Virginia shall make such work order summaries 
available upon request under the review procedures of Section 4. 
(v) When a project, or portion thereof, is placed into service, 
Transource West Virginia shall deduct from total CWIP the 
accumulated balance of the FPN tracking account for that project, 
or portion thereof.  The purpose of this control process is to 
ensure that expenditures are not double counted as both CWIP 
and as additions to plant. 
(vi) For transmission projects for which the Commission has not 
authorized Transource West Virginia to include any CWIP in rate 
base, Transource West Virginia shall record AFUDC to be 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 23 
applied to the full CWIP balance of the FPN tracking account and 
capitalized when the project is placed into service. 
b. Annual Reporting:  For CWIP Projects, Transource West Virginia shall 
file a report with the Commission at the time of Transource West 
Virginia’s Informational Filing that shall include the following 
information concerning each transmission project under construction: 
(i) a demonstration that each project for which CWIP is included in 
rate base was identified through PJM’s regional planning process 
and awarded to Transource West Virginia on the basis of a 
competitive bid;  
(ii) the cost allocation methodology for each project under the PJM 
Tariff; 
(iii) a tabulation of the monthly summaries described in Section 
7(a)(iv) for each unique FPN tracking account, including thirteen 
(13) monthly balances illustrating the amount of CWIP included 
in rate base for the project, the amount of CWIP that is not 
included in rate base for the project, the amount of accumulated 
AFUDC associated with any CWIP not included in rate base, and 
any amounts recorded in related FERC accounts or subaccounts, 
such as regulatory liability; 
(iv) the resulting effect of CWIP on the Net Revenue Requirement, 
including the percentage of any increase in the year-over-year Net 
Revenue Requirement that is attributable to CWIP, and the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-26A TWV Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 9/5/2015 - Docket #: ER15-2114-001 - Page 24 
percentage of the total Net Revenue Requirement for the Rate 
Year that is attributable to CWIP; 
(v) a statement of the current status of each project; and 
(vi) the estimated in-service date for each project.  
Section 10.   Competitive Concessions 
 
For transmission development projects assigned to Transource West Virginia as 
a result of the PJM competitive proposal process, Transource West Virginia may, in its 
sole discretion, agree with PJM to apply a competitive concession that will result in a 
lower Net Revenue Requirement on a project-specific basis than that which would 
otherwise be produced by the Transource West Virginia Attachment H-26 formula rate.  
Any competitive concession will appear as a zero or negative input to the formula, and 
will be determined on a project-specific basis using a workpaper that will be provided to 
Interested Parties as supporting documentation for each Transource West Virginia 
Annual Update.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27 - Silver Run Annual Transmission Rates 
Effective Date: 6/27/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1983-000 - Page 1 
