ATTACHMENT H-16B 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
Section 1 Annual Updates 
 a. No later than September 15 of each year, VEPCO shall cause to be posted on the 
www.PJM.com website the following information (the “Annual Update”): 
  (i) VEPCO’s Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement (“ATRR”), rate for 
Network Integration Transmission Service (“NITS”), based on applying 
its projected costs, revenues and credits, other than those credits that will 
be distributed to customers pursuant to section 2 of Attachment H-16, for 
the next calendar year, plus its True-up Adjustment calculated pursuant to 
the Formula Rate set out in Attachment H-16A, 
  (ii) an estimate of the Network Service Peak Load of the Dominion Zone that 
will be used by the Transmission Provider to determine each Network 
Customer’s Zone Network Load pursuant to Section 34.1 and Attachment 
H-16 for the next calendar year; and  
 (iii) an explanation of any change in VEPCO’s accounting policies and 
practices that took effect in the preceding twelve months ending August 
31 that is reported in Notes 3 and 4 of VEPCO’s Securities and Exchange 
Commission Form 10-Q (“Material Accounting Changes”).  To the extent 
there are Material Accounting Changes, VEPCO’s Form 10-Q will be 
posted on PJM’s website at the time of the Annual Update.  
 b. Upon written request, VEPCO will make available to any entity that is or may 
become a customer taking transmission service on the VEPCO facilities operated 
by the Transmission Provider, any state regulatory commission with jurisdiction 
over the VEPCO facilities located in the area served by the Transmission 
Provider, and any party having standing under Section 206 of the Federal Power 
Act (an “Interested Party”) a "workable" Excel file containing that year's Annual 
Update data. 
c. No later than September 30 of each year, VEPCO shall hold a public meeting to 
explain the Annual Update for the next calendar year.  VEPCO shall modify the 
Annual Update to reflect any changes that it and the Interested Parties agree upon 
by no later than December 18, and shall cause the revised Annual Update to be 
posted on the www.PJM.com website no later than January 15.  VEPCO shall 
cause the Annual Update, as revised pursuant to the procedures set out above, to 
be included in an informational filing with the Commission by no later than 
January 15.  This filing will not require Commission action. 
 d. The ATRR and the Rate for Network Integration Transmission Service, 
determined pursuant to Section 1.a above and adjusted pursuant to Sections 2 and 
3, below, shall be effective for the next calendar year. 
 e. If after September 15, PJM determines the actual Network Service Peak Load for 
the Dominion Zone that will be used by the Transmission Provider to determine 
each Network Customer’s Zone Network Load pursuant to Section 34.1 and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-16B - Virginia Electric 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 2 
Attachment H-16 for the next calendar year differs from the value posted pursuant 
to Section 1.a.ii., above, the Rate for Network Integration Transmission Service 
shall be adjusted to reflect the updated Network Service Peak Load and VEPCO 
shall cause an updated calculation of the Rate for Network Integration 
Transmission Service to be posted on the www.PJM.com website no later than 
fifteen (15) business days following the posting by PJM of the actual Network 
Service Peak Load for the Dominion Zone.  
 
Section 2 Annual Review Procedures 
 a. No later than June 15 of each year, VEPCO shall cause to be posted on the 
www.PJM.com website the following information: 
  (i) the adjusted ATRR for the previous calendar year, calculated by applying 
the methodology set out in Attachment H-16A Appendix A to VEPCO’s 
actual costs for that calendar year; and 
  (ii) the True-Up Adjustment Before Interest for the previous calendar year, 
calculated pursuant to Attachment H-16A, Attachment 6. 
b. No later than October 25 of each year, any Interested Party may serve information 
requests on VEPCO concerning the adjusted ATRR for the previous calendar year 
and the True-Up Adjustment (“Information Requests”).   Information Requests 
shall be limited to what is necessary to determine whether VEPCO has properly 
calculated the True-Up Adjustment and its components and the procedures in this 
Attachment H-16B. Information Requests shall not (i) otherwise be directed to 
ascertaining whether the Formula Rate is just and reasonable; (ii) solicit 
information concerning costs or allocations where the costs or allocation method 
have been determined by FERC or resolved by a settlement accepted by FERC or 
in the context of other True-up Adjustments, except that such information 
requests shall be permitted if they seek to determine if there has been a material 
change in circumstances.  Interested Parties shall make good faith efforts to 
submit consolidated sets of information requests that limit the number and overlap 
of questions to the maximum extent practicable.  
c. VEPCO shall make a good faith effort to respond to the Information Requests 
within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such requests.  VEPCO may give 
reasonable priority to responding to Information Requests that satisfy the 
practicable coordination and consolidation provision of Section 2.b. above. 
 
Section 3 Challenges to True-Up Adjustments 
a. No later than December 2 of each year, any Interested Party may notify VEPCO 
in writing of any specific challenges to any component of the most recently-
posted True-Up Adjustment and any Material Accounting Change identified 
pursuant to Section 1.a(iii), above that affects the True-Up Adjustment 
("Preliminary Challenge").  VEPCO shall promptly cause the Preliminary 
Challenge to be posted on the www.PJM.com website.  VEPCO and the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-16B - Virginia Electric 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 3 
Interested Party shall make good faith efforts to resolve the Preliminary Challenge 
through negotiations.  Any modification to the True-Up Adjustment or any 
Material Accounting Change that results from such negotiations and that is agreed 
upon no later than December 18 shall be promptly posted on the website and 
incorporated into the Annual Update for the next calendar year.  
b. Any Interested Party that has not resolved its Preliminary Challenge to a True-Up 
Adjustment or a Material Accounting Change that affects the True-Up 
Adjustment may file with the FERC a Complaint pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 385.206. 
c. An Interested Party’s failure to make a Preliminary Challenge with respect to a 
component of the True-Up Adjustment or a Material Accounting Change that 
affects that True-Up Adjustment shall not bar the Interested Party from making a 
Preliminary Challenge related to a subsequent True-Up Adjustment or to the same 
Material Accounting Change to the extent such Material Accounting Change 
affects a subsequent True-Up Adjustment. 
d. In any Complaint proceeding or proceeding initiated sua sponte by the FERC 
challenging a True-Up Adjustment or a Material Accounting Change, VEPCO 
shall bear the burden of proving that it has reasonably calculated the True-Up 
Adjustment and/or reasonably adopted and applied the Material Accounting 
Change.   
e. Any changes to the data inputs, including but not limited to revisions to VEPCO’s 
FERC Form No. 1, resulting from Preliminary Challenges or proceedings before 
the FERC, including proceedings initiated pursuant to Section 3.b above and 
proceedings initiated sua sponte by the FERC, that are not agreed upon no later 
than December 18 shall be incorporated into the Formula Rate and the True-Up 
Adjustment for the next calendar year that commences after the negotiations or 
proceedings become final.  This reconciliation mechanism shall apply in lieu of 
mid-year adjustments, refunds or surcharges to rates.  However, in the event that 
the Formula Rate is replaced by a stated rate for VEPCO, actual refunds or 
surcharges (with interest determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. §35.19a) shall 
be made no later than thirty (30) days after the effective date of the stated rate 
established by FERC. 
 
Section 4 Proceedings to Modify the Formula Rate or Stated Components of the 
Formula Rate 
a. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in 
any way the right of VEPCO to file unilaterally, pursuant to Section 205 of the 
Federal Power Act and the regulations thereunder, to modify the Formula Rate or 
stated components of the Formula Rate (including, but not limited to, the rate of 
return on equity, the depreciation rates and Post-Employment Benefits other than 
Pensions (“PBOP”)); or to replace the Formula Rate with a stated rate; or the right 
of any other entity to request such changes pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal 
Power Act and the regulations thereunder. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-16C - Virginia Electric 
Effective Date: 6/13/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1930-000 - Page 1 
