ATTACHMENT H-29B 
 
TRANSOURCE PENNSYLVANIA, LLC 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
The formula rate template (“Template”) and these formula rate implementation 
protocols (“Protocols”) together comprise the filed rate (“Formula Rate”) of Transource 
Pennsylvania, LLC (“Transource Pennsylvania”) for transmission revenue requirement 
determinations under the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) Open Access 
Transmission Tariff (“PJM Tariff”).  Transource Pennsylvania shall follow the 
instructions specified in the Formula Rate to calculate annually its net annual 
transmission revenue requirement, as set forth at Attachment H-29A, page 1, line 10 of 
the Template (“Net Revenue Requirement”).  The Net Revenue Requirement shall be 
determined for January 1 to December 31 of a given calendar year (the “Rate Year”).      
Section 1. Annual Projection 
a. No later than September 30 preceding the first Rate Year, and each subsequent 
Rate Year, Transource Pennsylvania shall determine its projected Net Revenue 
Requirement for the upcoming Rate Year in accordance with Transource 
Pennsylvania’s Formula Rate (“Annual Projection”).  The Annual Projection shall 
include the True-Up Adjustment described and defined in Section 2 below, if 
applicable.  Transource Pennsylvania shall cause an electronic version of the 
Annual Projection to be posted in both a Portable Document Format (“PDF”) and 
fully functioning Excel file at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet 
website and open access same-time information system (“OASIS”).   
b. The posting of the Annual Projection shall: 
(i) Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 2 
supporting documentation and workpapers for data that are used in the 
projected Net Revenue Requirement; 
(ii) Include all inputs in sufficient detail to identify the components of 
Transource Pennsylvania’s projected Net Revenue Requirement, 
explanations of the bases for the projections and input data, and sufficient 
detail and explanation to enable Interested Parties1 to replicate the 
calculation of the projected Net Revenue Requirement;   
(iii) With respect to any Accounting Changes (as that term is defined in 
Section 3.e.iii)—  
A. Identify any Accounting Changes including:  
i. The initial implementation of an accounting standard or 
policy; 
ii. The initial implementation of accounting practices for 
unusual or unconventional items where the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) has 
not provided specific accounting direction;  
iii. Correction of errors and prior period adjustments that 
impact the projected Net Revenue Requirement calculation;  
iv. The implementation of new estimation methods or policies 
that change prior estimates; and  
 
1 As used in these Protocols, “Interested Parties” shall include but not be limited to:  (i) any Eligible 
Customer under the PJM Tariff; (ii) any regulatory agency with rate jurisdiction over a public utility 
located within the PJM footprint; (iii) any consumer advocate authorized by state law to review and contest 
the rates for any such public utility; and (iv) any party with standing under Federal Power Act (“FPA”) 
section 205 or section 206. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 3 
v. Changes to income tax elections;  
B. Identify items included in the projected Net Revenue Requirement 
at an amount other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value 
adjustments);  
C. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the 
previous year and explain the effect of the accounting for such 
transaction(s) on inputs to the projected Net Revenue Requirement; 
and  
D. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to Section 1.b.iii.A–C of 
these Protocols, a narrative explanation of the individual impact of 
such changes on the projected Net Revenue Requirement.  
c.  If the date for making the posting of the Annual Projection should fall on a 
weekend or a holiday recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be made no 
later than the next business day.2  Within five (5) calendar days of the posting, 
PJM shall provide notice of such posting via the PJM Members Committee email 
subscription (“PJM Exploder List”).  Interested Parties can subscribe to the PJM 
Exploder List on the PJM website.   
d. Together with the posting of the Annual Projection, Transource Pennsylvania 
shall cause to be posted on the PJM internet website and OASIS, and distributed 
to the PJM Exploder List, the time, date, location, and remote-access information 
for a stakeholder meeting with Interested Parties in order for Transource 
 
2 For the purposes of these Protocols, if any deadline included in these Protocols should fall on a weekend 
or a holiday recognized by FERC, then the deadline shall be extended to no later than the next business 
day. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 4 
Pennsylvania to explain its Annual Projection and to provide Interested Parties 
an opportunity to seek information and clarifications regarding the Annual 
Projection (“Annual Projection Meeting”).  The Annual Projection Meeting shall 
be held no less than twenty (20) business days and no more than thirty (30) 
business days after the posting of the Annual Projection.  Notice of the Annual 
Projection Meeting shall be provided via the PJM Exploder List no less than 
seven (7) calendar days prior to the meeting.  Transource Pennsylvania will 
provide remote access to the Annual Projection Meeting in order to ease burdens 
(e.g., travel costs) to ensure all Interested Parties have the opportunity to 
participate.  
e. To the extent Transource Pennsylvania agrees to make changes in the Annual 
Projection for a given Rate Year, such revised Annual Projection shall be 
promptly posted at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website and 
OASIS, and e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  Changes posted prior to 
November 30 preceding the Rate Year, or the next business day if November 30 
is not a business day (or such later date as can be accommodated under PJM’s 
billing practices), shall be reflected in the Annual Projection for the Rate Year; 
changes posted after that date will be reflected, as appropriate, in the True-Up 
Adjustment for the Rate Year.   
f. The Annual Projection, including the True-Up Adjustment, for each Rate Year 
shall be subject to review, challenge, true-up, and refunds or surcharges with 
interest, to the extent and in the manner provided in these Protocols. 
Section 2.  True-Up Adjustment 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 5 
Transource Pennsylvania will calculate the amount of under- or over-collection of 
its actual Net Revenue Requirement during the preceding Rate Year (“True-Up 
Adjustment”) after the FERC Form No. 1 data for that Rate Year has been filed with the 
Commission.  The True-Up Adjustment shall be the sum of the True-Up Adjustment 
Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(a) and the Interest on the True-Up 
Adjustment Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(b): 
a.  Transource Pennsylvania’s projected Net Revenue Requirement collected during 
the previous Rate Year3 will be compared to Transource Pennsylvania’s actual 
Net Revenue Requirement for the previous Rate Year calculated in accordance 
with Transource Pennsylvania’s Formula Rate and based upon (i) Transource 
Pennsylvania’s FERC Form No. 1 for that same Rate Year, (ii) any FERC orders 
specifically applicable to Transource Pennsylvania’s calculation of its annual 
revenue requirement, (iii) the books and records of Transource Pennsylvania 
(which shall be maintained consistent with the FERC Uniform System of 
Accounts (“USofA”)), (iv) FERC accounting policies and practices applicable to 
the calculation of annual revenue requirements under formula rates, and (v) any 
aspects of the PJM Tariff Governing Documents4 that apply to the calculation of 
annual revenue requirements under individual transmission owner formula rates, 
 
3 If the initial use of the Formula Rate covers only part of a calendar year, the initial projected Net Revenue 
Requirement will be divided by the number of months the Formula Rate is in effect to calculate the 
monthly projected cost of service to be collected each month of the first year.  Similarly, the actual Net 
Revenue Requirement will be divided by the number of months the rate is in effect to calculate the actual 
cost of service to be collected each month of the first year.  The first True-Up Adjustment will compare the 
projected Net Revenue Requirement collected and the actual Net Revenue Requirement for that initial Rate 
Year. 
4 PJM Tariff Governing Documents include the PJM Tariff, Bylaws, Criteria, and Membership 
Agreements. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 6 
to determine any over- or under-recovery (“True-Up Adjustment Over/Under 
Recovery”).   
b. Interest on any True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery of the actual Net 
Revenue Requirement shall be calculated in accordance with Attachment 6 of the 
Formula Rate.  Interest on any True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery shall 
be calculated for the twenty-four (24) months during which the over- or under-
recovery in the revenue requirement exists, i.e., January 1 of the Rate Year being 
trued-up through December 31 of the following year.  The interest rate to be 
applied to the over-recovery or under-recovery amounts will be determined using 
the average monthly FERC Interest Rate (as determined pursuant to 18 C.F.R. 
§ 35.19a) for the twenty (20) months from the beginning of the Rate Year being 
trued-up through August 31 of the following year.  
Section 3.  Annual Update 
a. On or before June 30 following each Rate Year, Transource Pennsylvania shall 
calculate its actual Net Revenue Requirement and the True-Up Adjustment as 
described in Section 2 for such Rate Year (“Annual Update”) and, together with 
such other information described in this Section 3, shall cause such Annual 
Update to be posted, in both a PDF and fully functioning Excel format, at a 
publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS.  Within five 
(5) calendar days of such posting, PJM shall provide notice of such posting via 
the PJM Exploder List.    

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 7 
b. If the date for making the Annual Update posting should fall on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be due on the next business 
day. 
c. The date on which the posting occurs shall be that year’s “Publication Date.” 
d. Together with the posting of the Annual Update, Transource Pennsylvania shall 
cause to be posted on the PJM website and OASIS the time, date, location, and 
remote-access information for a stakeholder meeting with Interested Parties in 
order for Transource Pennsylvania to explain its Annual Update and to provide 
Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and clarifications regarding 
the Annual Update (“Annual Update Meeting”).  Notice of the Annual Update 
Meeting shall be provided via the PJM Exploder List no less than seven (7) 
calendar days prior to the meeting.  The Annual Update Meeting shall be held no 
less than twenty (20) business days and no more than thirty (30) business days 
after the Publication Date.  Transource Pennsylvania will provide remote access 
to the Annual Update Meeting in order to ease burdens (e.g., travel costs) to 
ensure all Interested Parties have the opportunity to participate.   
e. The Annual Update posting for the Rate Year: 
(i)  Shall provide, via the Formula Rate worksheets, sufficiently detailed 
supporting documentation for data (and all adjustments thereto or 
allocations thereof) used in the Formula Rate that are not stated in the 
FERC Form No. 1;5 
 
5 It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations described 
therein, that each input to the Formula Rate for purposes of determining the actual Net Revenue 
Requirement for a given Rate Year will be either taken directly from the FERC Form No. 1, or reconcilable 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 8 
(ii) Shall provide sufficient detail and sufficient explanation to enable 
Interested Parties to replicate the calculation of the Annual Update results 
from the FERC Form No. 1 and verify that each input to the Template is 
consistent with the requirements of the Formula Rate; 
(iii) Shall identify:  
A. Any change in accounting that affects inputs to the Template or the 
resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate (“Accounting 
Change”), including: 
i. The initial implementation of an accounting standard or 
policy;  
ii. The initial implementation of accounting practices for 
unusual or unconventional items where FERC has not 
provided specific accounting direction; 
iii.  Correction of errors and prior period adjustments that 
impact the True-Up Adjustment calculation; 
iv. The implementation of new estimation methods or policies 
that change prior estimates; and 
v. Changes to income tax elections; 
B. Any items included in the Annual Update at an amount other than 
on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
 
to the FERC Form No. 1, by the application of clearly identified and supported information.  If the 
referenced form is superseded, the successor form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as necessary to 
provide equivalent information as that provided in the superseded form.  If the referenced form is 
discontinued, equivalent information as that provided in the discontinued form shall be utilized. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 9 
C. Any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year 
and an explanation of the effect of the accounting for such 
transaction(s) on inputs to the Annual Update; 
D. For each item identified pursuant to Sections 3.e.iii.A–C of these 
Protocols, the individual impact (in narrative format) of such 
changes on the Annual Update;  
(iv) Shall identify any changes in the formula references (page and line 
numbers) to the FERC Form No. 1; 
(v) Shall identify all material adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data 
in determining formula inputs, including relevant footnotes to the FERC 
Form No. 1 and any adjustments not shown in the FERC Form No. 1; 
(vi) Shall include for the applicable Rate Year the following information 
related to affiliate cost allocation:  (1) a detailed description of the 
methodologies used to allocate and directly assign costs between 
Transource Pennsylvania and its affiliates by service category or function, 
including any changes to such cost allocation methodologies from the 
prior year, and the reasons and justification for those changes; and (2) the 
magnitude of such costs that have been allocated or directly assigned 
between Transource Pennsylvania and each affiliate by service category or 
function; 
(vii) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Sections 4, 5, and 6 of these Protocols;  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 10 
(viii) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in these Protocols with respect to the prudence of 
any costs and expenditures included for recovery in the Annual Update; 
provided, however, that nothing in these Protocols is intended to modify 
the Commission’s applicable precedent with respect to the burden of 
going forward or burden of proof under formula rates in such prudence 
challenges; and 
(ix) Shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be subject to 
challenge by any Interested Party seeking to modify the Formula Rate 
(i.e., any modifications to the Formula Rate will require, as applicable, an 
FPA section 205 or section 206 filing or initiation of a section 206 
investigation). 
f. The following Formula Rate inputs shall be stated values to be used in the 
Formula Rate until changed pursuant to an FPA section 205 or section 206 
proceeding:  (i) rate of return on common equity (“ROE”); (ii) the depreciation 
and/or amortization rates as set forth in Attachment 10 to the Formula Rate 
template; and (iii) Post-Employment Benefits other than Pension (“PBOP”) 
charges.   
g. Example – Timelines for first Annual Projection and first Annual Update: 
 On or before September 30, 2017, Transource Pennsylvania will determine the 
projected Net Revenue Requirement for the 2018 Rate Year, which is expected 
to be the first year that costs are recovered from PJM customers under the 
Formula Rate.  Transource Pennsylvania will post the Annual Projection for the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 11 
2018 Rate Year in accordance with Section 1 above.  On or before June 30, 
2019, Transource Pennsylvania will post its first Annual Update, consisting of 
the actual Net Revenue Requirement and True-Up Adjustment for the 2018 Rate 
Year determined pursuant to Section 2 above.  Such True-Up Adjustment will be 
reflected in the Annual Projection of the Net Revenue Requirement for the 2020 
Rate Year posted on or before September 30, 2019.   
Section 4.  Annual Review Procedures 
Each Annual Update and Annual Projection shall be subject to the following 
review procedures (“Annual Review Procedures”): 
a. Interested Parties shall have up to the later of two-hundred-ten (210) calendar 
days after the Publication Date, or thirty (30) calendar days after the receipt of 
all responses to timely submitted information requests (unless such period is 
extended with the written consent of Transource Pennsylvania or by FERC 
order) (“Review Period”), to review the calculations and to notify Transource 
Pennsylvania in writing of any specific challenges to the Annual Update or 
Annual Projection (“Preliminary Challenge”), including challenges related to 
Accounting Changes.  An Interested Party submitting a Preliminary Challenge 
must specify the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations, calculations, or 
other information to which it objects, and provide an appropriate explanation and 
documents to support its challenge.  Transource Pennsylvania shall promptly 
cause to be posted all Preliminary Challenges at a publicly accessible location on 
PJM’s internet website and OASIS, and a link to the website will be e-mailed to 
the PJM Exploder List.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 12 
b.  In the event of a Preliminary Challenge, Transource Pennsylvania will appoint a 
senior representative to work with the Interested Party (or its representatives) 
toward a resolution of the dispute.   
c. Transource Pennsylvania shall respond in writing to a Preliminary Challenge 
within twenty (20) business days of receipt, and its response shall notify the 
challenging party of the extent to which Transource Pennsylvania agrees or 
disagrees with the challenge.  If Transource Pennsylvania disagrees with the 
Preliminary Challenge, it will provide the Interested Party with an explanation 
supporting the challenged inputs, explanations, allocations, calculations, or other 
information.  Transource Pennsylvania shall promptly cause to be posted its 
responses to all Preliminary Challenges at a publicly accessible location on 
PJM’s internet website and OASIS, and a link to the website will be e-mailed to 
the PJM Exploder List.  Provided however, that Preliminary Challenges and 
responses to Preliminary Challenges that include material deemed by Transource 
Pennsylvania to be confidential information will not be publicly posted but will 
be made available to requesting parties pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to 
be executed by Transource Pennsylvania and the requesting party.   
d. Transource Pennsylvania shall respond to all Preliminary Challenges submitted 
during the Review Period by no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the end 
of the Review Period.  
e. Interested Parties shall have up to one-hundred-fifty (150) calendar days after 
each annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written 
consent of Transource Pennsylvania or by FERC order) to serve reasonable 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 13 
information requests on Transource Pennsylvania (“Discovery Period”).   
f.  Information requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine:  (i) the 
extent, effect, or impact of an Accounting Change; (ii) whether the Annual 
Update or Annual Projection fails to include data properly recorded in 
accordance with the Protocols; (iii) the proper application of the Template and 
procedures in the Protocols; (iv) the accuracy of data and consistency with the 
Formula Rate of the charges shown in the Annual Update or Annual Projection; 
(v) the prudence of the actual costs and expenditures, including procurement 
methods and cost control methodologies; (vi) the effect of any change to the 
underlying USofA or FERC Form No. 1; and (vii) any other information that 
may reasonably have substantive effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant 
to the Formula Rate.  The information requests shall not otherwise be directed to 
ascertaining whether the Formula Rate is just and reasonable.  Information 
requests shall not solicit information concerning costs or allocations where the 
costs or allocation methods have been determined to be appropriate by FERC in 
the context of prior Transource Pennsylvania Annual Updates, except that such 
information requests shall be permitted if they (i) seek to determine if there has 
been a change in circumstances, (ii) are in connection with corrections pursuant 
to Section 6 of these Protocols, or (iii) relate to costs or allocations that have not 
previously been challenged and adjudicated by FERC.   
g. Transource Pennsylvania shall make a good faith effort to respond to information 
requests pertaining to the Annual Update or Annual Projection within fifteen (15) 
business days of receipt of such requests.  Transource Pennsylvania shall respond 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 14 
to all information requests no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the end of 
the Discovery Period.  Transource Pennsylvania will cause to be posted on the 
PJM website and OASIS all information requests from Interested Parties and 
Transource Pennsylvania’s response(s) to such requests, and a link to the website 
will be e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  Provided however, that information 
and document requests and responses to information and document requests that 
include material deemed by Transource Pennsylvania to be confidential 
information will not be publicly posted but will be made available to requesting 
parties pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to be executed by Transource 
Pennsylvania and the requesting party. 
h.  Transource Pennsylvania shall not claim that responses to information and 
document requests provided pursuant to these Protocols are subject to any 
settlement privilege in any subsequent FERC proceeding addressing Transource 
Pennsylvania’s Annual Update or Annual Projection. 
i. To the extent Transource Pennsylvania and any Interested Party(ies) are unable 
to resolve disputes related to information requests submitted in accordance with 
these Annual Review Procedures, Transource Pennsylvania or the Interested 
Party(ies) may petition FERC to appoint an Administrative Law Judge as a 
discovery master to resolve the discovery dispute(s) in accordance with these 
Protocols and consistent with FERC’s discovery rules. 
j. Preliminary Challenges or Formal Challenges (as described in Sections 4 and 5) 
related to Accounting Changes shall be treated in the same manner under these 
Protocols as other challenges to the Annual Update or Annual Projection.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 15 
Failure to make a Preliminary Challenge with respect to an Accounting Change 
in an Annual Update or Annual Projection shall not act as a bar with respect to a 
Formal Challenge with respect to that Annual Update or Annual Projection 
provided that the Interested Party submitted a Preliminary Challenge with 
respect to one or more other issues.  Nor shall such failure bar a subsequent 
Preliminary Challenge related to a subsequent Annual Update or Annual 
Projection to the extent such Accounting Change affects the subsequent Annual 
Update or Annual Projection. 
k. If a change made by Transource Pennsylvania to its accounting policies, 
practices, or procedures, or the application of the Formula Rate, is found by 
FERC to be unjust, unreasonable, or unduly discriminatory or preferential, then 
the calculation of the charges to be assessed during the Rate Year then under 
review, and the charges to be assessed during any subsequent Rate Years, 
including any True-Up Adjustments, shall not include such change, but shall 
include any remedy that may be prescribed by FERC in the exercise of its 
discretion as of the effective date of such remedy, to ensure that the Formula 
Rate continues to operate in a manner that is just, reasonable, and not unduly 
discriminatory or preferential.  
 Section 5. Resolution of Challenges 
a. Interested Parties shall have up to the later of April 15 following the Publication 
Date or thirty (30) calendar days after Transource Pennsylvania makes the 
informational filing described in Section 7 below (unless such period is extended 
with the written consent of Transource Pennsylvania or by FERC order), to file a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 16 
challenge with FERC (“Formal Challenge”).  Such Formal Challenge shall be 
submitted in the same docket as Transource Pennsylvania’s informational filing 
and shall be served on Transource Pennsylvania by electronic service on the date 
of such filing in accordance with Section 385.2010(f)(3) of the Commission’s 
regulations.   
b. Subject to any applicable confidentiality and Critical Energy Infrastructure 
Information restrictions, all information and correspondence produced by 
Transource Pennsylvania pursuant to these Protocols may be included in any 
Formal Challenge or other FERC proceeding relating to the Formula Rate.  
c. Formal Challenges are to be filed pursuant to these Protocols, rather than under 
rule 206, and shall: 
(i) Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the 
Formula Rate Template or Protocols;  
(ii)   Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed rate Template or 
Protocols; 
(iii)   Set forth the business, commercial, economic, or other issues presented 
by the action or inaction as such relate to or affect the party filing the 
Formal Challenge, including 
A.  The extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
B. Whether the Annual Update or Annual Projection fails to include 
data properly recorded in accordance with these Protocols;  
C. The proper application of the Template and procedures in these 
Protocols;  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 17 
D. The accuracy of the data and consistency with the Formula Rate 
of the charges shown in the Annual Update or Annual Projection; 
E. The prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
F. The effect of any change to the underlying USofA or the FERC 
Form No. 1; or  
G. Any other information that may reasonably have substantive 
effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Template.  
(iv) Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if 
any) created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of the 
action or inaction; 
(v)  State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing 
Commission proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the 
filing party is a party, and, if so, provide an explanation why timely 
resolution cannot be achieved in that forum; 
(vi) State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for 
stay or extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
(vii) Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in 
possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, including, but 
not limited to, contracts and affidavits; and 
(viii) State whether the filing party utilized the Preliminary Challenge 
procedures described in these Protocols to dispute the action or inaction 
raised by the Formal Challenge, and, if not, describe why not. 
d. Preliminary and Formal Challenges shall be limited to issues that may be 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 18 
necessary to determine:  (i) the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
(ii) whether the Annual Update or Annual Projection fails to include data 
properly recorded in accordance with these Protocols; (iii) the proper application 
of the Formula Rate and procedures in these Protocols; (iv) the accuracy of data 
and consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations shown in the Annual 
Update and Annual Projection; (v) the prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
(vi) the effect of any change to the underlying USofA or FERC Form No. 1; or 
(vii) any other information that may reasonably have substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the formula. 
e.  Failure to raise an issue in a Preliminary Challenge shall not bar an Interested 
Party from raising that issue in a Formal Challenge, provided the Interested Party 
submitted a Preliminary Challenge during the Review Period with respect to one 
or more other issues. 
f. Failure to pursue an issue through a Preliminary Challenge or to lodge a Formal 
Challenge regarding any issue as to a given Annual Update or Annual Projection 
shall bar pursuit of such issue with respect to that Annual Update or Annual 
Projection, but shall not bar pursuit of such issue or the lodging of a Formal 
Challenge as to such issue as it relates to a subsequent Annual Update or Annual 
Projection. 
g. Any response by Transource Pennsylvania to a Formal Challenge must be 
submitted to FERC within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the filing of 
the Formal Challenge, and shall be served on the filing party(ies) and the PJM 
Exploder List on the date of such filing.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 19 
h. In any Formal Challenge proceeding concerning a given year’s Annual Update 
(including corrections), Annual Projection, or Accounting Change(s), 
Transource Pennsylvania shall demonstrate the justness and reasonableness of 
the rate resulting from its application of the Formula Rate by demonstrating that 
it has reasonably and accurately calculated the Annual Update or Annual 
Projection and/or reasonably adopted and applied the Accounting Change.  
Nothing herein is intended to alter the burdens applied by FERC with respect to 
prudence challenges. 
i. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in 
any way the right of Transource Pennsylvania to file unilaterally, pursuant to 
section 205 of the FPA and the regulations thereunder, an application seeking 
changes to the Formula Rate or to any of the stated value inputs requiring a 
section 205 filing under these Protocols (including, but not limited to, ROE and 
depreciation and amortization rates, and PBOP charges ), or the right of any 
other party or the Commission to seek such changes pursuant to section 206 of 
the FPA and the regulations thereunder.  
Section 6. Changes to Annual Updates  
If Transource Pennsylvania determines or concedes that corrections to the 
Annual Update are required, whether under Sections 4 or 5 of these Protocols, including 
but not limited to those requiring corrections to its FERC Form No. 1, or input data used 
for a Rate Year that would have affected the Annual Update for that Rate Year, such 
corrections shall be reflected as adjustments in the Annual Update for the next Rate 
Year, with interest calculated in accordance with the FERC Interest Rate (as determined 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 20 
pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a).  This reconciliation mechanism shall apply in lieu of 
mid-Rate Year adjustments.  
Section 7. Informational Filing 
Transource Pennsylvania shall submit to FERC an informational filing 
(“Informational Filing”) of its projected Net Revenue Requirement and Annual Update 
by March 15 following the Publication Date or by forty-five (45) calendar days 
following the close of the Review Period, whichever is later.  This Informational Filing 
must include the information that is reasonably necessary to determine:  (1) that input 
data under the Formula Rate are properly recorded in any underlying workpapers; 
(2) that Transource Pennsylvania has properly applied the Formula Rate and these 
Protocols; (3) the accuracy of data and the consistency with the Formula Rate of the Net 
Revenue Requirement and rates under review; (4) the extent of Accounting Changes 
that affect Formula Rate inputs; and (5) the reasonableness of projected costs.  The 
Informational Filing must also describe any corrections or adjustments made during that 
period, and must describe all aspects of the Annual Update and Annual Projection or 
their inputs that are the subject of an ongoing dispute under the Preliminary or Formal 
Challenge procedures.  Additionally, the Informational Filing must include for the 
applicable Rate Year the following information related to affiliate cost allocation:  (1) a 
detailed description of the methodologies used to allocate and directly assign costs 
between Transource Pennsylvania and its affiliates by service category or function, 
including any changes to such cost allocation and methodologies from the prior year, 
and the reasons and justification for those changes; and (2) the magnitude of such costs 
that have been allocated or directly assigned between Transource Pennsylvania and each 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 21 
affiliate by service category or function.  Within five (5) calendar days of such 
Informational Filing, PJM shall provide notice of the Informational Filing via the PJM 
Exploder List and by posting the docket number assigned to Transource Pennsylvania’s 
Informational Filing on the PJM website and OASIS.  Any challenges to the 
implementation of the Template must be made through the annual review and challenge 
procedures described in Sections 4 and 5 of these Protocols, or in a separate complaint 
proceeding, and not in response to the Informational Filing. 
Section 8. Joint Informational Meeting  
 Transmission Owners with transmission projects that are subject to a regional or 
inter-regional cost sharing mechanism shall endeavor to hold a joint informational 
meeting to enable all Interested Parties to understand how those Transmission Owners 
are implementing their formula rates for cost recovery of such projects (“Joint 
Informational Meeting”).  The Joint Informational Meeting shall be remotely accessible. 
Notice of the Joint Informational Meeting, including the time, date, location, and 
remote-access information shall be posted on the PJM website and OASIS and 
distributed to the PJM Exploder List no less than seven (7) calendar days prior to such 
meeting.  Transource Pennsylvania will participate in Joint Informational Meetings once 
it begins development of a project for which costs are to be regionally or inter-
regionally allocated.   
Section 9.  Construction Work in Progress  
a. Accounting:  Transource Pennsylvania shall use the following accounting 
procedures to ensure that it does not accrue an Allowance for Funds Used 
During Construction (“AFUDC”) with respect to any amount of Construction 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 22 
Work In Progress (“CWIP”) included in rate base. 
(i) Transource Pennsylvania shall assign each transmission project a unique 
Funding Project Number (“FPN”) for internal cost tracking purposes. 
(ii) Transource Pennsylvania shall record actual construction costs to each 
FPN through work orders that are coded to correspond to the FPN for 
each project for which FERC has authorized all or part of the CWIP 
balance to be included in rate base (“CWIP Project”).   
(iii) Each project-specific FPN tracking account will be programmed to 
calculate and accrue AFUDC only on the balance of CWIP that is not 
included in rate base.    
(iv) For each project under construction, Transource Pennsylvania shall 
prepare monthly work order summaries of costs incurred under the 
associated FPN.  These summaries shall show monthly additions to 
CWIP in the FPN and, if less than 100% of the CWIP corresponding to 
the project FPN is included in rate base, shall separately identify through 
FPN subaccounts (i) the component of the project CWIP balance 
included in rate base; and (ii) the component of the project CWIP balance 
that is not included in rate base, including capitalized AFUDC.  The 
summaries will also show any additions to plant in service.  The 
summaries shall correspond to amounts recorded in FERC Account 107, 
CWIP, which account balance will be reported on Transource 
Pennsylvania’s FERC Form No. 1.  Transource Pennsylvania shall use 
these project-specific monthly summaries as data inputs into the annual 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 23 
CWIP report prepared under Section 9(b) and the Annual Update 
calculated pursuant to Section 3.  Transource Pennsylvania shall make 
such work order summaries available upon request under the review 
procedures of Section 4. 
(v) When a project, or portion thereof, is placed into service, Transource 
Pennsylvania shall deduct from total CWIP the accumulated balance of 
the FPN tracking account for that project, or portion thereof.  The 
purpose of this control process is to ensure that expenditures are not 
double-counted as both CWIP and as additions to plant. 
(vi) For CWIP Projects prior to the date upon which CWIP is first included in 
rate base, and for transmission projects for which the Commission has 
not authorized Transource Pennsylvania to include any CWIP in rate 
base, Transource Pennsylvania shall record AFUDC to be applied to the 
full CWIP balance of the FPN tracking account and capitalized when the 
project is placed into service. 
b. Annual Reporting:  For CWIP Projects, Transource Pennsylvania shall file a 
report with the Commission at the time of Transource Pennsylvania’s 
Informational Filing that shall include the following information concerning 
each transmission project under construction: 
(i) A demonstration that each project for which CWIP is included in rate 
base was identified through PJM’s regional planning process and 
awarded to Transource Pennsylvania on the basis of a competitive bid;  
(ii) The cost allocation methodology for each project under the PJM Tariff; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 24 
(iii) A tabulation of the monthly summaries described in Section 9(a)(iv) for 
each unique FPN tracking account, including thirteen (13) monthly 
balances illustrating the amount of CWIP included in rate base for the 
project, the amount of CWIP that is not included in rate base for the 
project, the amount of accumulated AFUDC associated with any CWIP 
not included in rate base, and any amounts recorded in related FERC 
accounts or subaccounts, such as regulatory liability; 
(iv) The resulting effect of CWIP on the Net Revenue Requirement, including 
the percentage of any increase in the year-over-year Net Revenue 
Requirement that is attributable to CWIP, and the percentage of the total 
Net Revenue Requirement for the Rate Year that is attributable to CWIP; 
(v) A statement of the current status of each project; and 
(vi) The estimated in-service date for each project.  
Section 10.  Competitive Concessions 
 
For transmission development projects assigned to Transource Pennsylvania as a 
result of the PJM competitive proposal process, Transource Pennsylvania may, in its 
sole discretion, agree with PJM to apply a competitive concession that will result in a 
lower Net Revenue Requirement on a project-specific basis than that which would 
otherwise be produced by the Transource Pennsylvania Attachment H-29A Formula 
Rate.  Any competitive concession will appear as a zero or negative input to the 
formula, and will be determined on a project-specific basis using a workpaper that will 
be provided to Interested Parties as supporting documentation for each Transource 
Pennsylvania Annual Update.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 8/12/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1407-002 - Page 25 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30 - TMD Annual Transmission Rates 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 1 
 
