ATTACHMENT M-1 (FirstEnergy Zones) 
  FirstEnergy Procedure for Determining a 
Load Serving Entity’s Hourly Energy Obligations 
 
Purpose 
 
The purpose of this Attachment M-1 is to give PJM members serving load in a FirstEnergy 
Zone(s) the understanding of how each hour of an operating day’s Total Hourly Energy 
Obligation (“THEO”) is developed, in accordance with the PJM Open Access Transmission 
Tariff, the PJM Operating Agreement, Reliability Assurance Agreement or other relevant PJM 
documents (the “PJM Documents”) and submitted to PJM.  Attachment M-1 pertains to both 
wholesale and retail Load Serving Entities (“LSEs”) serving load in the following FirstEnergy 
Electric Distribution Companies (“EDC”) Zones (the “FirstEnergy Zones”):  Ohio Edison 
Company, The Toledo Edison Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company 
(together “ATSI Ohio”), FirstEnergy Pennsylvania Electric Company (“FE PA”) operating in the 
separate ATSI, Penelec, MetEd, and Allegheny Power PJM transmission zones, Jersey Central 
Power & Light Company (“JCP&L”), Monongahela Power Company (“Mon Power”) and The 
Potomac Edison Company (“Potomac Edison MD” and “Potomac Edison WV”).  Attachment 
M-1 is not intended to supersede or replace any contractual arrangement(s) between FirstEnergy 
(or its affiliated FirstEnergy EDC) and the applicable LSE that otherwise governs the 
calculations.  Such contractual arrangement(s) shall prevail unless silent on a particular issue or 
calculation. 
 
Attachment M-1 is divided into three main sections.  The first section titled “Terms” defines 
terms specific to this Attachment M-1 that are not found in the PJM Documents.  The second 
section titled “Wholesale” describes processes for determining the THEO for wholesale LSEs 
such as municipal electric utilities or electric cooperatives.  The final section titled “Retail” 
describes processes for determining the THEO for retail LSEs such as retail generation service 
providers serving retail customers or retail suppliers providing provider of last resort services. 
 
FirstEnergy performs the THEO calculation and subsequently uploads this data to PJM systems 
(such as PJM’s InSchedule eSuite application or its successor) on behalf of retail LSEs and 
wholesale LSEs serving load in each FirstEnergy Zone, unless otherwise agreed.  
 
Questions concerning the methodologies described in this Attachment M-1 may be submitted by 
visiting the Supplier Support section of the FirstEnergy corporate website located here: 
https://www.firstenergycorp.com/supplierservices.   
 
Section I:  Terms 
 
Unaccounted for Energy – Energy that is remaining after comparing:  (a) the FirstEnergy Zone 
load determined by summing physical generation delivered to a FirstEnergy Zone plus net 
imports/exports of energy into/out of a FirstEnergy Zone to:  (b) the sum of all wholesale and 
retail customers’ metered load, whether interval metered or estimated, including contractual or 
otherwise mutually agreed upon losses, as specified herein or as otherwise filed with FERC, in 
any given hour.  Unaccounted for Energy is not allocated to wholesale LSEs unless otherwise 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-1 (FirstEnergy Zones) 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 2 
specified in their contracts/agreements with FirstEnergy.  The methodology for determining 
Unaccounted for Energy for an LSE providing service to retail customers receiving distribution 
service from a FirstEnergy EDC shall be set forth in state-approved retail tariffs. 
 
Losses – The following loss factors shall apply for each FirstEnergy Zone.  Loss factors will be 
applied according to location (FirstEnergy Zone) and service voltage of each meter point.  For 
wholesale LSEs, all of the loss factors specified herein shall apply, unless otherwise established 
by contract and filed with FERC.  For retail LSEs, the Transmission Load loss factors specified 
herein shall apply, however for lower service voltages, the loss factors specified in state-
approved retail tariffs shall apply.     
 
Service Voltage ATSI Ohio  FE PA 
(Penn 
Power, 
ATSI Zone) 
 
FE PA 
(MetEd 
Zone) 
FE PA 
(Penelec 
Zone) 
JCP&L 
Transmission Load 1.01486 1.01486 1.02100 1.04070 1.03900 
Subtransmission Source 1.02786 1.02786    
Subtransmission Load 1.02886 1.02886    
Primary Load 1.05786 1.05786 1.03740 1.06060 1.06100 
Secondary Load 1.09486 1.08960 1.07180 1.09450 1.11800 
 
Service Voltage FE PA (West Penn 
Power, Allegheny 
Power Zone) 
Potomac Edison 
MD 
Potomac Edison 
WV 
Mon Power 
Transmission Load 1.02184 1.02245 1.02245 1.02233 
Subtransmission Source   1.02646  
Subtransmission 
w/Tran Charge 
1.04282    
Subtransmission Load 1.03578 1.03742 1.03807 1.03390 
Primary Source   1.03070 1.03378 
Primary Load 1.06383 1.07542 1.07691 1.06071 
Secondary Load 1.09434 1.09513 1.09705 1.09033 
 
Transmission Load - For Mon Power, Potomac Edison MD, Potomac Edison WV and FE PA 
(West Penn Power, Allegheny Power Zone), 138 kV and above.  For JCP&L and FE PA 
(Penelec and MetEd Zones), 34.5 kV and above.  For ATSI Ohio and FE PA (Penn Power, ATSI 
Zone), 69 kV and above. 
 
Substransmission Source - For Potomac Edison WV, ATSI Ohio and FE PA (Penn Power, ATSI 
Zone), service at source of subtransmission bus. 
 
Subtransmission w/Tran Charge - For FE PA (West Penn Power, Allegheny Power Zone), 
service on low side of subtransmission to primary transformer.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-1 (FirstEnergy Zones) 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 3 
Subtransmission Load - For Mon Power, Potomac Edison MD, Potomac Edison WV, and FE PA 
(West Penn Power, Allegheny Power Zone), 23 kV to 69 kV.  For ATSI Ohio and FE PA (Penn 
Power, ATSI Zone), 23 kV to 34.5 kV. 
 
Primary Source - For Mon Power and Potomac Edison WV, service at source of primary bus. 
 
Primary Load - For Mon Power, Potomac Edison MD, Potomac Edison WV, FE PA (West Penn 
Power, Allegheny Power Zone; and Penn Power, ATSI Zone), and ATSI Ohio, 1 kV to 15 kV.  
For FE PA (Penelec and MetEd Zones) and JCP&L, 1 kV to 34.5 KV. 
 
Secondary Load - For all FirstEnergy EDC Zones, below 1 kV. 
 
Section II:  Wholesale  
 
The FirstEnergy EDCs are required to determine the THEO for each wholesale LSE operating in 
their respective FirstEnergy Zones and submit this information to PJM per practices under the 
PJM Documents.  The following procedures and methodologies describe how THEO is 
determined. 
 
Note:  A wholesale LSE’s THEO is determined in accordance with current and approved 
contractual obligations between FirstEnergy EDCs and the respective wholesale LSE.  Should 
the current and approved agreements be silent on procedural matters regarding the determination 
and submittal of a wholesale LSE’s THEO, the PJM Documents shall be used to establish such 
procedures including those outlined below. 
 
FirstEnergy uses the following equation to determine a wholesale LSE’s THEO in a FirstEnergy 
Zone.  If the wholesale LSE serves load in more than one FirstEnergy Zone, the THEO is 
determined separately for each FirstEnergy Zone. 
 
       n 
  THEO = ∑ (Wholesale LSE’s Interconnection Hourly Meter Reading  * (1.0 + Applicable Loss Factor)) 
              x=1 
where: 
 
 THEO = The wholesale LSE’s hourly energy consumption in any given hour of the 
previous operating day in a FirstEnergy Zone 
 
 x = A specific Meter* included in the determination of the wholesale LSE’s hourly 
energy consumption in a FirstEnergy Zone 
 
 n = The total number of Meters aggregated to determine the wholesale LSE’s THEO 
  
*  For purposes of this document, the term “Meter” refers to the billing quality metering devices 
and related equipment owned by FirstEnergy and/or the wholesale LSE, located at or near the 
interconnection point (the “Interconnection”) between the FirstEnergy distribution or 
transmission system and the wholesale LSE system, and used to measure the wholesale LSE’s 
THEO. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-1 (FirstEnergy Zones) 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 4 
 
Wholesale LSE’s Interconnection Hourly Meter Reading (WIMR) = The quantity of 
energy consumed by the wholesale LSE at an individual wholesale LSE’s Interconnection as 
shown on the Meter in a given hour, with an adjustment for certain behind-the-meter generation 
if applicable.  Specifically, WIMR shall equal the actual interconnection point meter readings of 
the wholesale LSE plus the metered output of any generation resources that met all of the 
following three criteria during the given hour: (1) the resource was operating behind the 
interconnection meter, (2) the resource was participating in PJM markets or other wholesale 
markets, and (3) the output of the resource was wheeled across the wholesale LSE’s system to 
the FirstEnergy distribution or transmission system. 
 
Applicable Loss Factor (ALF) = The contractually or otherwise mutually determined loss 
factor as specified herein or as otherwise filed with FERC in effect to account for losses across 
the applicable distribution and transmission system to the LSE’s system.   
 
In the case where the actual WIMR is not obtained by FirstEnergy from one or more of the 
Meters in time to use in the calculation of the wholesale LSE’s THEO, FirstEnergy will use an 
estimated WIMR in place of an actual WIMR for any missing hour(s) of Meter data. 
 
The derivation of an estimated WIMR will be determined on a case-by-case basis and be 
dependent on the reason for and the duration of the event triggering the need for an estimated 
WIMR.  FirstEnergy’s WIMR methodology will take into account appropriate variables such as 
the history of the Interconnection Meter readings; load growth; the season of the year; 
temperature and any other variable(s) that could significantly affect the accuracy of the WIMR. 
 
The following chart illustrates possible cases and outcomes of using this methodology to 
estimate the WIMR to be provided to PJM.  The methodology used to generate a WIMR in a 
particular case is dependent on the reason the actual WIMR was not received. 
 
Case Reason Primary (Day After) 
Reconciliation Estimate 
Secondary (60-Day) 
Reconciliation Estimate 
1 Short-term communication outage 
(<59 days) 
Profile generated in FE 
Settlement System* 
Not applicable if actual 
Meter data received 
2 Long-term communication error 
(>=59 days) 
Profile generated in FE 
Settlement System* 
Not applicable if actual 
Meter data received via 
handheld device or 
manual entry 
3 Short-term Meter/metering 
equipment malfunction (< 59 days) 
Profile generated in FE 
Settlement System* 
Estimate in Meter Data 
Management System* 
4 Long-term Meter/metering equipment 
malfunction (>= 59 days) 
Estimate in Meter Data 
Management System* 
Estimate in Meter Data 
Management System* 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-1 (FirstEnergy Zones) 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 5 
*  If the FE Settlement or Data Management System(s) data are not available or may not be 
accurate, data obtained from the wholesale LSE’s Meter, SCADA or other accurate source will 
be used.  Regardless of estimating methodology or data source, FirstEnergy will coordinate the 
estimate(s) of the wholesale LSE’s THEO with the affected wholesale LSE. 
 
 
Section III: Retail  
 
The THEO for an LSE providing service to retail customers receiving distribution service from a 
FirstEnergy EDC shall adhere to the following: 
 
A. Where retail customers are interval metered and interval meter data is used for retail 
billing, interval meter data will be utilized for the THEO calculations. 
 
B. Where interval meter readings are not received in time for PJM settlement deadlines, 
estimates will be developed using customer specific profiles. 
 
C. Where retail customers do not have installed interval metering or use interval metering 
for billing, profiles will be utilized to distribute load into hourly values spanning the retail 
customer’s billing period. 
 
D. All retail customer load will be grossed up for applicable transmission and distribution 
losses. 
 
E. Unaccounted For Energy for each hour will be allocated to LSEs based on their load ratio 
share of metered load, unless such approach is prohibited by the applicable regulatory 
body.  The FirstEnergy EDC will provide monthly, on an informational basis, the 
Unaccounted For Energy hourly percentages that were applied to LSEs’ hourly loads.  
 
FirstEnergy does not determine the THEO for retail consumers of wholesale LSEs like municipal 
electric utilities and electric cooperatives.   
 
Additional implementation details related to the determination of the THEO for retail LSEs and 
the process for submitting data for sub-account customers will be provided in the manual titled 
"Supplier Energy Obligation" posted under the "Supplier Registration" tab of the Supplier 
Support section of the FirstEnergy corporate website located here: 
https://www.firstenergycorp.com/supplierservices.  The Manual may reflect differences based on 
the state utility commission requirements applicable to each FirstEnergy EDC, to the extent such 
requirements are not inconsistent with the requirements stated in this Attachment M-1. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-2 (FirstEnergy Zones) 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 1 
