[ATTACHMENT CC - Part 7 of 7]

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 13 
1. An Energy Efficiency Resource is a project, including installation of more 
efficient devices or equipment or implementation of more efficient processes or 
systems, exceeding then-current building codes, appliance standards, or other 
relevant standards, designed to achieve a continuous (during peak summer and 
winter periods as described herein) reduction in electric energy consumption at 
the end-use customer’s retail site that is not reflected in the peak load forecast 
prepared for the Delivery Year for which the Energy Efficiency Resource is 
proposed, and that is fully implemented at all times during such Delivery Year, 
without any requirement of notice, dispatch, or operator intervention. 
 
2. An Energy Efficiency Resource may be offered as a Capacity Resource in the 
Base Residual or Incremental Auctions for any Delivery Year beginning on or 
after June 1, 2011.  No later than 30 days prior to the auction in which the 
resource is to be offered, the Capacity Market Seller shall submit to the Office of 
the Interconnection a notice of intent to offer the resource into such auction and a 
measurement and verification plan.  The notice of intent shall include all pertinent 
project design data, including but not limited to the peak-load contribution of 
affected customers, a full description of the equipment, device, system or process 
intended to achieve the load reduction, the load reduction pattern, the project 
location, the project development timeline, and any other relevant data. Such 
notice also shall state the seller’s proposed Nominated Energy Efficiency Value. 
   
 
• For the 2018/2019 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery Years and for any 
Annual Energy Efficiency Resource committed as a Capacity Performance 
Resource, the seller’s proposed Nominated Energy Efficiency Value for any 
Annual Energy Efficiency Resources, shall be the expected average load 
reduction, for all days from June 1 through August 31, inclusive, of such 
Delivery Year that is not a weekend or federal holiday, between the hour 
ending 15:00 EPT and the hour ending 18:00 EPT.  In addition, the expected 
average load reduction for all days from January 1 through February 28, 
inclusive, of such Delivery Year that is not a weekend or federal holiday, 
between the hour ending 8:00 EPT and the hour ending 9:00 EPT and between 
the hour ending 19:00 EPT and the hour ending 20:00 EPT shall not be less 
than the Nominated Energy Efficiency Value; and 
 
• For the 2020/2021 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery Years, the seller’s 
proposed Nominated Energy Efficiency Value for any Summer-Period Energy 
Efficiency Resource shall be the expected average load reduction between the 
hour ending 15:00 EPT and the hour ending 18:00 EPT during all days from 
June 1 through August 31, inclusive, of such Delivery Year that is not a 
weekend or federal holiday. 
 
The measurement and verification plan shall describe the methods and 
procedures, consistent with the PJM Manuals, for determining the amount of 
the load reduction and confirming that such reduction is achieved.  The Office 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 14 
of the Interconnection shall determine, upon review of such notice, the 
Nominated Energy Efficiency Value that may be offered in the Reliability 
Pricing Model Auction. 
 
3. An Energy Efficiency Resource may be offered with a price offer or as Self-
Supply.  If an Energy Efficiency Resource clears the auction, it shall receive the 
applicable Capacity Resource Clearing Price, subject to section 5 below.  A 
Capacity Market Seller offering an Energy Efficiency Resource must comply with 
all applicable credit requirements as set forth in Tariff, Attachment Q.  The 
Unforced Capacity value of an Energy Efficiency Resource offered into an RPM 
Auction or committed in a FRR Capacity Plan shall be the Nominated Energy 
Efficiency Value times the Forecast Pool Requirement. 
 
4. An Energy Efficiency Resource that clears an auction for a Delivery Year may be 
offered in auctions for up to three additional consecutive Delivery Years, but shall 
not be assured of clearing in any such auction; provided, however, an Energy 
Efficiency Resource may not be offered for any Delivery Year in which any part 
of the peak season is beyond the expected life of the equipment, device, system, 
or process providing the expected load reduction; and provided further that a 
Capacity Market Seller that offers and clears an Energy Efficiency Resource in a 
BRA may elect a New Entry Price Adjustment on the same terms as set forth in 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14(c). 
 
5. For every Energy Efficiency Resource clearing an RPM Auction for a Delivery 
Year, the Capacity Market Seller shall submit to the Office of the Interconnection, 
by no later than 30 days prior to each Auction an updated project status and 
measurement and verification plan subject to the criteria set forth in the PJM 
Manuals.  
 
6. For every Energy Efficiency Resource clearing an RPM Auction for a Delivery 
Year, the Capacity Market Seller shall submit to the Office of the Interconnection, 
by no later than the start of such Delivery Year, an updated project status and 
detailed measurement and verification data meeting the standards for precision 
and accuracy set forth in the PJM Manuals.  The final value of the Energy 
Efficiency Resource during such Delivery Year shall be as determined by the 
Office of the Interconnection based on the submitted data.   
 
7. The Office of the Interconnection may audit, at the Capacity Market Seller’s 
expense, any Energy Efficiency Resource committed to the PJM Region.  The 
audit may be conducted any time including the Performance Hours of the 
Delivery Year. 
 
8.   For RPM Auctions for the 2021/2022 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery 
Years, if a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority receives FERC 
authorization to qualify or prohibit Energy Efficiency Resource participation in a 
specific area(s) of the PJM Region, the following process applies: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 15 
(a)  The Office of the Interconnection will publicly post a reference to the 
FERC authorization of a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority order, 
ordinance or resolution that qualifies or prohibits Energy Efficiency Resource 
participation, the applicable electric distribution company(ies), and the applicable 
auction(s) and/or Delivery Year(s). 
(b)  A Capacity Market Seller that intends to offer or certify Energy Efficiency 
Resources must identify and itemize all resources that are located in the 
jurisdiction of a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority authorized by 
FERC to qualify or prohibit Energy Efficiency Resource participation within the 
Zone or LDA, as required, and those outside of the area but within the Zone or 
LDA, as required. 
(c)  A Capacity Market Seller that intends to offer or certify Energy Efficiency 
Resources must identify and itemize all Energy Efficiency Resources to be 
offered as part of its Energy Efficiency  measurement and verification plan and 
certified post-installation measurement and verification report. The Office of 
Interconnection will provide a list to the relevant electric distribution company for 
the specific area(s) to review for compliance with the Relevant Electric Retail 
Regulatory Authority of Capacity Market Sellers that are: 
(i) offering Energy Efficiency Resources in an RPM Auction within 
two (2) Business Days after the deadline for submitting an energy 
efficiency measurement and verification plan for such RPM 
Auction; and 
(ii)  certifying Energy Efficiency Resources with a Delivery Year post-
installation measurement and verification report, within two (2) 
Business Days of receipt of such Delivery Year post-installation 
measurement and verification report.The relevant electric 
distribution company for the specific area(s) shall review for 
compliance with rules from a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory 
Authority authorized by FERC to qualify or prohibit Energy 
Efficiency Resource. 
 
(d) The relevant electric distribution company for the specific area(s) shall 
review for compliance with rules from a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory 
Authority authorized by FERC to qualify or prohibit Energy Efficiency Resource 
participation and provide a response to the Office of the Interconnection within 
five (5) Business Days after receiving the list of Capacity Market Sellers offering 
Energy Efficiency Resources. The Office of the Interconnection will not allow a 
Capacity Market Seller to offer or certify Energy Efficiency Resources if an 
electric distribution company denies such Capacity Market Seller to deliver 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 16 
Energy Efficiency Resources in compliance with rules of a Relevant Electric 
Retail Regulatory Authority authorized by FERC to qualify or prohibit Energy 
Efficiency Resource participation.  
(9)  For RPM Auctions for the 2021/2022 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery 
Years, a Capacity Market Seller of Energy Efficiency Resources that cannot 
satisfy its RPM obligations in any Delivery Year due to the prohibition of 
participation by a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority authorized by 
FERC to prohibit participation of such resources may be relieved of its Capacity 
Resource Deficiency Charge by notifying the Office of the Interconnection by no 
later than seven (7) calendar days prior to the posting of the planning parameters 
for the Third Incremental Auction of that Delivery Year. After providing such 
notice, the affected Capacity Market Seller may elect to be relieved of its RPM 
commitment, and shall not be required to obtain replacement capacity for the 
resource, and no charges shall be assessed by the Office of the Interconnection for 
the Capacity Market Seller’s deficiency in satisfying its RPM obligation for the 
resource for such Delivery Year. In such case, however, the Capacity Market 
Seller shall not be entitled to, nor be paid, any RPM revenues for such resource 
for that Delivery Year. The Office of the Interconnection will apply 
corresponding adjustments to the quantity of Buy Bids or Sell Offers in the 
Incremental Auctions for such Delivery Years in accordance with Tariff, 
Attachment DD, sections 5.12(b)(ii) and 5.12(b)(iii). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-2 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT DD-2 
PROCEDURES FOR PEAK SHAVING ADJUSTMENT 
As detailed in Manual 19, the Office of the Interconnection will develop a load forecast 
adjustment to capture the impact of Peak Shaving Adjustments. The requirements to participate 
in the Peak Shaving Adjustment program are provided in this Attachment DD-2. 
A. Peak Shaving Adjustment Plan. A Peak Shaving Adjustment plan shall be submitted to 
the Office of the Interconnection no later than 10 Business Days prior to September 30 to 
be effective for the next PJM load forecast update. For the 2019 load forecast, the Peak 
Shaving Adjustment plan shall be submitted to PJM by February 1, 2019.  The Peak 
Shaving Adjustment plan shall include the following information: 
 
(1) Company name; 
(2) Company contact information; 
(3) Expected peak shaving value in MWs by Zone; 
(4) Copy of tariff or order demonstrating approval of Peak Shaving Adjustment program 
by the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority; 
(5)  The applicable Delivery Year and Base Residual Auction or Incremental Auction for 
which the plan applies; and 
(6)  Officer certification confirming the veracity of the Peak Shaving Adjustment plan 
and that the MW quantity is reasonably expected to be physically delivered through 
customer registrations for the relevant summer period. 
 
A total peak shaving value in MWs will be calculated by the Office of the 
Interconnection for each Zone as the addition of the peak shaving value of existing peak shaving 
plus the peak shaving value of planned peak shaving. The total peak shaving value represents the 
maximum MW amount that the Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator intends to offer 
for the Zone. 
 
B. Peak Shaving Plan Details. 
 
 (1) Description and Key Assumptions of Peak Shaving Adjustment Program. The 
Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall describe the program(s) to be employed to 
achieve the peak shaving value indicated on the Peak Shaving Adjustment plan. The Peak 
Shaving Adjustment plan shall describe key program attributes and assumptions used to develop 
the peak shaving value.  Specifically, the description shall include, but is not limited to:  
(a) Method(s) of achieving load reduction at customer site(s); 
(b) Equipment to be controlled or installed at customer site(s), if any; 
(c) Plan and ability to acquire customers; 
(d) Types of targeted customers;  
(e) Support of market potential and market share for the target customer base, with 
adjustments for existing peak shaving customers within this market and the potential 
for CSPs targeting the same customers; 
(f) Evidence to support regulatory approval that the Peak Shaving Adjustment 
program(s) will be in place as of the relevant Delivery Year, if applicable; and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-2 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 2 
(g) If offering a Legacy Direct Load Control (LDLC) program, the following additional 
LDLC program details shall be provided: 
 
• Description of the cycling control strategy;  
• A list of all load research studies (with study dates) used to develop the 
estimated nominated ICAP value (kW) per customer (i.e., the per-participant 
impact). A copy of all studies shall be provided with the Peak Shaving 
Adjustment plan. If the LDLC program employs a radio signal, the Peak Shaving 
Adjustment program administrator may elect to either submit a load research 
study to support the estimated nominated ICAP value per customer or utilize the 
per participant impacts contained in the “Deemed Savings Estimates for Legacy 
Air Conditioning and Water Heating Direct Load Control Programs in the PJM 
Region” Report; and 
• Assumptions regarding switch operability rate (%). 
(2) Peak Shaving Value by end-use customer Site. The Peak Shaving Adjustment 
program administrator shall provide the following information when the end-use customer is 
known at the time of the submittal of the Peak Shaving Adjustment Plan. This section shall also 
be completed for peak shaving quantities identified in the Peak Shaving Adjustment plan as 
requiring site-specific information, since this identified quantity should reflect planned peak 
shaving associated with specific end-use customer sites for which the Peak Shaving Adjustment 
program administrator has a high degree of certainty that it will physically deliver for the 
relevant summer period. The Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall provide the 
following information: 
 
(a) Customer EDC account number (if known); 
(b) Customer name; 
(c) Customer premise address; 
(d) Zone; 
(e) Customer segment; 
(f) Actual value (if known) or estimate of current PLC and estimate of expected PLC in 
kW; and 
(g) Estimated peak shaving value in kW. 
 
In the event that Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrators identify the same end-
use customer site, the MWs associated with such site will not be approved for offering into the 
RPM auction or inclusion in the peak shaving adjustment by any of the Peak Shaving 
Adjustment program administrators, unless it can be supported by evidence, such as a letter of 
support from the end-use customer indicating that they have been in contact with the Peak 
Shaving Adjustment program administrator and are likely to execute a contract with that Peak 
Shaving Adjustment program administrator for the relevant summer period. In the event that 
multiple letters of support indicating different Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrators 
are provided from the end use customer, the MWs associated with the end-use customer site will 
not be approved for inclusion in the load forecast by any of the Peak Shaving Adjustment 
program administrators.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-2 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 3 
 (3) Planned Peak Shaving Value by Customer Segment. For those planned peak shaving 
values for which an end-use customer site is not identified in this section B(2) of the Peak 
Shaving Adjustment plan details, the Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall 
identify the planned peak shaving values by Zone and by end-use customer segment. end-use 
customer segments include residential, commercial, small industrial (less than 3 MW), medium 
industrial (between 3 MW and 10 MW) and large industrial (greater than 10 MW). If known, the 
Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator may identify more specific customer segments 
within the commercial and industrial category. The Peak Shaving Adjustment program 
administrator shall provide estimates of the following information by Zone and by end-use 
customer segment: 
(a) Number of end-use customer to be registered for each summer period; 
(b) Average Peak Load Contribution (PLC) per end-use customer in kW; and 
(c) Average peak shaving value per customer in kW. 
 
Based on the above provided information, a total peak shaving value in MW will be 
calculated for each end-use customer segment and for each Zone. The total peak shaving value 
identified by customer segment and aggregated for each Zone of the Peak Shaving Plan details 
plus the total peak shaving values identified by end-use customer site(s) and aggregated for each 
Zone of the Peak Shaving Plan details shall equal the total peak shaving value for each Zone as 
identified in the Peak Shaving Adjustment plan. 
C. Peak Shaving Adjustment Program Details.  The Peak Shaving Adjustment program 
administrator shall provide a brief description of each submitted program, the 
temperature heat index (THI) threshold at which Peak Shaving Adjustment program shall 
be operated, the hours over which the program will operate once triggered, the total peak 
shaving value (consistent with the Peak Shaving Plan Details), and a table of program 
impacts over a range of hours and THI, showing the impact for the hour/THI combination 
as a percentage of the total peak shaving value. 
 
D. Historic Program Impacts. The Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall 
provide estimated hourly load impacts for each Peak Shaving Adjustment program for 
every implementation back to January 1, 1998. 
 
E. Schedule. The Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall provide an 
approximate timeline for procuring end-use customer sites in order to physically deliver 
the total peak shaving value (existing and planned peak shaving) by Zone in the Peak 
Shaving Adjustment plan. For each Zone and for each customer segment, the Peak 
Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall specify the cumulative number of 
customers and the cumulative peak shaving value associated with that group of customers 
that the Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator expects to have under contract 
by the beginning of each of the summer periods in the PJM load forecast horizon. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> ATTACHMENT DD-3 
Effective Date: 9/28/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2582-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT DD-3 
 
State policies or programs accepted as Conditioned State Support and subject to the Minimum 
Offer Price Rule, specified in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14(h-2), are as follows:  
 
[reserved] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT EE 
Effective Date: 4/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-750-000 - Page 1 
