ATTACHMENT H-27B 
 
SILVER RUN ELECTRIC, LLC 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
 
 
The formula rate template (“Template”) and these formula rate implementation protocols 
(“Protocols”) together comprise the filed rate (“Formula Rate”) of Silver Run Electric, LLC 
(“SRE”) for transmission revenue requirement determinations under the PJM Interconnection, 
LLC (“PJM”) Open Access Transmission Tariff (“PJM Tariff”). SRE shall follow the 
instructions specified in the Formula Rate to calculate annually its net revenue requirement, as 
set forth at page 1, line 9 of the Template (“Net Revenue Requirement”).  The Net Revenue 
Requirement shall be determined for January 1 to December 31 of a given calendar year (the 
“Rate Year”).  The Formula Rate shall become effective for recovery of SRE’s Net Revenue 
Requirement upon the effective date for incorporation into the PJM Tariff through an appropriate 
filing with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) under 
Section 205 of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”), 16 U.S.C. § 824d. 
Section 1. Annual Projection  
a. No later than October 1 preceding the first Rate Year, and each subsequent Rate 
Year, SRE shall determine its projected Net Revenue Requirement for the 
upcoming Rate Year in accordance with SRE’s Formula Rate (“Annual 
Projection”).  The Annual Projection shall include the True-up Adjustment 
described and defined in Section 2 below, if applicable.   
b. Posting, Format, and Notice of Annual Projection.  No later than October 1 
preceding the first Rate Year, and each subsequent Rate Year, SRE shall cause an 
electronic version of the Annual Projection to be posted in both a Portable 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 2 
Document Format (“PDF”) and fully-functioning Excel file at a publicly 
accessible location on PJM’s internet website.  Such posting shall include all 
inputs in sufficient detail to identify the components of SRE’s projected Net 
Revenue Requirement, explanations of the bases for the projections and input 
data, and sufficient detail and explanation to enable Interested Parties1 to replicate 
the calculation of the projected Net Revenue Requirement.  If the date for making 
such posting of the Annual Projection should fall on a weekend or a holiday 
recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be made no later than the next 
business day.  Within ten (10) days of such posting, PJM shall provide notice of 
such posting via the PJM Members Committee email subscription (“PJM 
Exploder List”).  Interested Parties can subscribe to the PJM Exploder List on the 
PJM website. 
c. Accounting Changes.  With respect to any Accounting Change (as that term is 
defined in Section 3.d.iii), SRE shall (i) identify any Accounting Changes, 
including the initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy, the 
initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or unconventional 
items where FERC has not provided specific accounting direction, correction of 
errors and prior period adjustments that impact the projected Net Revenue 
Requirement calculation, the implementation of new estimation methods or 
policies that change prior estimates, and changes to income tax elections; (ii) 
identify items included in the projected Net Revenue Requirement at an amount 
 
1  As used in these Protocols, “Interested Parties” shall include but not be limited to: (i) any Eligible 
Customer under the PJM Tariff; (ii) any regulatory agency with rate jurisdiction over a public utility located within 
the PJM footprint; (iii) any consumer advocate authorized by state law to review and contest the rates for any such 
public utility; and (iv) any party with standing under FPA Section 205 or Section 206. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 3 
other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); (iii) identify any 
reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year and explain the 
effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to the projected Net 
Revenue Requirement; and (iv) provide, for each item identified pursuant to 
Section 1.c.i – iii of these Protocols, a narrative explanation of the individual 
impact of such changes on the projected Net Revenue Requirement. 
d. Annual Projection Meeting.  No less than twenty (20) business days and no more 
than thirty (30) business days after October 1, SRE shall hold a stakeholder 
meeting with Interested Parties in order for SRE to explain its Annual Projection 
and to provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and 
clarifications regarding the Annual Update (“Annual Projection Meeting”).  SRE 
shall cause to be posted on the PJM internet website and distributed to the PJM 
Exploder List, the time, date and location of the Annual Projection Meeting no 
fewer than seven (7) days prior to the Annual Projection Meeting, and SRE shall 
provide remote access to the Annual Projection Meeting to allow all Interested 
Parties the opportunity to remotely participate in such meetings.  If a certain 
deadline for Interested Parties falls on a weekend or holiday recognized by the 
Commission, then the deadline will be extended to the next business day. 
e. Revisions to the Annual Projection.  To the extent SRE agrees to make changes in 
the Annual Projection for a given Rate Year, such revised Annual Projection shall 
be promptly posted at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website 
and distributed to the PJM Exploder List.  Changes posted prior to December 1 of 
the preceding Rate Year, or the next business day if December 1 is not a business 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 4 
day (or such later date as can be accommodated under PJM’s billing practices), 
shall be reflected in the Annual Projection collected during the Rate Year; 
changes posted after that date will be reflected, as appropriate, in the True-up 
Adjustment for the Rate Year. 
f. Review and Challenge of the Annual Projection.  The Annual Projection, 
including the True-Up Adjustment, for each Rate Year shall be subject to review, 
challenge, true-up and refunds or surcharges with interest pursuant to Sections 4, 
5, and 6 of these Protocols. 
Section 2. True-Up Adjustment and Actual Net Revenue Requirement  
a. SRE will calculate the amount of under- or over-collection of its actual Net 
Revenue Requirement during the preceding Rate Year (“True-Up Adjustment”) 
after the FERC Form No. 1 data for that Rate Year has been filed with the 
Commission.  The True-Up Adjustment shall be the sum of the True-Up 
Adjustment Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(b) and the Interest 
on the True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(c). 
b. Calculation of the True-Up Adjustment.  To determine any over- or under-
recovery (“True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery”), SRE’s projected Net 
Revenue Requirement collected during the previous Rate Year2 will be compared 
to SRE’s actual Net Revenue Requirement for the previous Rate Year.  SRE shall 
calculate its actual Net Revenue Requirement in accordance with SRE’s Formula 
 
2  If the initial use of the Formula Rate covers only part of a calendar year, the initial projected Net Revenue 
Requirement will be divided by the number of months the Formula Rate is in effect to calculate the monthly 
projected cost of service to be collected each month of the first year. Similarly, the actual Net Revenue Requirement 
will be divided by the number of months the rate is in effect to calculate the actual cost of service to be collected 
each month of the first year. The first True-up Adjustment will compare the projected Net Revenue Requirement 
billed and the actual Net Revenue Requirement for that initial Rate Year. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 5 
Rate and based upon: (i) SRE’s FERC Form No. 1 for that same Rate Year; (ii) 
any FERC orders specifically applicable to SRE’s calculation of its annual 
revenue requirement; (iii) the books and records of SRE (which shall be 
maintained consistent with the FERC Uniform System of Accounts (“USofA”)); 
(iv) FERC accounting policies and practices applicable to the calculation of 
annual revenue requirements under formula rates; and (v) any aspects of the PJM 
OATT Governing Documents3 that apply to the calculation of annual revenue 
requirements under individual transmission owner formula rates.   
c. Calculation of Interest.  Interest on any True-up Adjustment Over/Under 
Recovery of the actual Net Revenue Requirement shall be calculated in 
accordance with Attachment 6 of the Formula Rate. 
d. Variance Analysis.  SRE will include a variance analysis of, at minimum, actual 
Net Revenue Requirement components of rate base, operating and maintenance 
expenses, depreciation expense, taxes, return on rate base, and revenue credits as 
compared to the corresponding components in the projected Net Revenue 
Requirement that was calculated for the prior Rate Year with an explanation of 
material changes. 
Section 3. Annual Update  
a. No later than July 1 following each Rate Year, SRE shall calculate its actual Net 
Revenue Requirement and the True-up Adjustment as described in Section 2 
(“Annual Update”) for such Rate Year. 
b. Posting and Notice of the Annual Update; Publication Date.  No later than July 1 
 
3  PJM OATT Governing Documents include the PJM OATT, Bylaws, Criteria, and Membership 
Agreements. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 6 
following each Rate Year, SRE shall cause such Annual Update, together with 
such other information described in this Section 3, to be posted in both a PDF and 
fully-functioning Excel format at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet 
website and distributed to the PJM Exploder List.  The date on which  
the last of the events listed in this Section 3.b occurs shall be that year’s 
“Publication Date,” which shall occur within ten (10) days of SRE posting the 
Annual Update.  If the date for making the Annual Update posting should fall on a 
weekend or a holiday recognized by the FERC, then the posting shall be due on 
the next business day. 
c. Annual Update Meeting.  No less than twenty (20) business days and no more 
than thirty (30) business days after July 1, SRE shall hold a stakeholder meeting 
with Interested Parties in order for SRE to explain its Annual Update and to 
provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and clarifications 
regarding the Annual Update (“Annual Update Meeting”).  SRE shall cause to be 
posted on the PJM website and distributed to the PJM Exploder List, the time, 
date and location for the Annual Update Meeting no fewer than seven (7) days 
prior to the Annual Update Meeting, and shall provide remote access to Annual 
Update Meetings to allow all Interested Parties the opportunity to remotely 
participate in such meetings.  If a certain deadline for Interested Parties falls on a 
weekend or holiday recognized by the Commission, then the deadline will be 
extended to the next business day. 
d. The Annual Update for the Rate Year: 
(i) Shall provide, via the Formula Rate worksheets, sufficiently detailed 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 7 
supporting documentation for data (and all adjustments thereto or 
allocations thereof) used in the Formula Rate that are not stated in the 
FERC Form No. 1;4 
 (ii) Shall provide sufficient detail and sufficient explanation to enable 
Interested Parties to replicate the calculation of the Annual True-Up  
results from the FERC Form No. 1 and verify that each input to the 
Template is consistent with the requirements of the Formula Rate; 
(iii) Shall identify: 
A. any change in accounting that affects inputs to the Template or the 
resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate (“Accounting 
Change”), including: 
I. the initial implementation of an accounting standard or 
policy; 
II. the initial implementation of accounting practices for 
unusual or unconventional items where FERC has not 
provided specific accounting direction; 
 
III. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that 
impact the True-Up Adjustment calculation; 
IV. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies 
 
4  It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations described therein, 
that each input to the Formula Rate for purposes of determining the actual Net Revenue Requirement for a given 
Rate Year will be either taken directly from the FERC Form No. 1 or reconcilable to the FERC Form No. 1 by the 
application of clearly identified and supported information.  If the referenced form is superseded, the successor 
form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as necessary to provide equivalent information as that provided in the 
superseded form. If the referenced form is discontinued, equivalent information as that provided in the discontinued 
form shall be utilized. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 8 
that change prior estimates; and 
V. changes to income tax elections; 
B. any items included in the Annual True-Up at an amount other than 
on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
C. any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year 
and an explanation of the effect of the accounting for such 
transaction(s) on inputs to the True-Up Adjustment; 
D. for each item identified pursuant to Sections 3.d.iii.A – C of these 
Protocols, the individual impact (in narrative format) of such 
changes on the True-Up Adjustment; 
(iv) Shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be subject to 
challenge by any Interested Party seeking to modify the Formula Rate 
(i.e., any modifications to the Formula Rate will require, as applicable, an 
FPA Section 205 or Section 206 filing or initiation of a Section 206 
investigation); and 
(v) Shall include for the applicable Rate Year the following information 
related to affiliate cost allocation: (A) a detailed description of the 
methodologies used to allocate and directly assign costs between SRE and 
its affiliates by service category and function, including any changes to 
such cost allocation methodologies from the prior year, and the reasons 
and justification for those changes; and (B) the magnitude of such costs 
that have been allocated or directly assigned between SRE and each 
affiliate by service category or function. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 9 
e. Stated Value Inputs.  The following Formula Rate inputs shall be stated values to 
be used in the Formula Rate until changed pursuant to an FPA Section 205 or 
Section 206 proceeding: (i) rate of return on common equity (“ROE”); and (ii) the 
depreciation and/or amortization rates as set forth in Attachment 10 to the 
Formula Rate template. 
f. Review and Challenge of the Annual Update.  The Annual Update shall be subject 
to review, challenge, true-up and refunds or surcharges in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Sections 4, 5, and 6 of these Protocols, including the 
prudence of any costs and expenditures included for recovery in the Annual 
Update; provided, however, that nothing in these Protocols is intended to modify 
the Commission’s applicable precedent with respect to the burden of going 
forward or burden of proof under formula rates in such prudence challenges. 
g. Example – Timeline for 2019 Annual Update: 
On or before October 1, 2018, SRE will determine the projected Net Revenue 
Requirement for the 2019 Rate Year.  SRE will post the Annual Projection for the 
2019 Rate Year in accordance with Section 1 above.  SRE will not determine a 
True-up Adjustment or post an Annual Update on July 1, 2019 if no costs have 
been recovered under the Formula Rate during 2018.  On or before October 1, 
2019, SRE will post the Annual Projection for the 2020 Rate Year.  On or before 
July 1, 2020, SRE will post its first Annual Update, consisting of the actual Net 
Revenue Requirement and True-Up Adjustment for the 2019 Rate Year 
determined pursuant to Section 2 above.  Such True-Up Adjustment will be 
reflected in the Annual Projection of the Net Revenue Requirement for the 2021 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 10 
Rate Year posted on or before October 1, 2020.  The Annual Update posted July 
1, 2020 will be subject to the customer review and challenge procedures described 
in Sections 4, 5, and 6 of these Protocols. 
Section 4. Annual Review Procedures  
The Annual Update and Annual Projection for each Rate Year shall be subject to the following 
review procedures (“Annual Review Procedures”): 
a. Information Requests and Responses 
(i) Deadlines.  Interested Parties shall have until January 1 following each 
annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written 
consent of SRE or by FERC order) to serve reasonable information and 
document requests on SRE.  SRE shall make a good faith effort to respond 
to information and document requests pertaining to the Annual Update and 
Annual Projection within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such 
requests.  SRE shall respond to all timely information and document 
requests by February 1 following each annual Publication Date; provided, 
however, that SRE may reasonably extend the deadline for its own 
responses in the event that it extends the deadline for submission of 
information and document requests.  If the date for submitting or 
responding to information and document requests should fall on a 
weekend or a holiday recognized by the FERC, then the submissions or 
responses shall be due on the next business day. 
(ii) Scope.  Information requests shall be limited to what is necessary to 
determine: (A) the extent, effect, or impact of an Accounting Change; (B) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 11 
whether the True-Up Adjustment fails to include data properly recorded in 
accordance with the Protocols; (C) the proper application of the Template 
and procedures in the Protocols; (D) the accuracy of data and consistency 
with the Formula Rate of the charges shown in the Annual Update or 
Annual Projection; (E) the prudence of the actual costs and expenditures; 
(F) the effect of any change to the underlying USofA or applicable form; 
and (G) any other information that may reasonably have substantive effect 
on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
(iii) Limitation on Scope.  Information requests shall not solicit information 
concerning costs or allocations where the costs or allocation methods have 
been determined to be appropriate by FERC in the context of prior SRE 
Annual Updates, except that such information requests shall be permitted 
if they (A) seek to determine if there has been a change in circumstances, 
(B) are in connection with corrections pursuant to Section 6 of these 
Protocols, or (C) relate to costs or allocations that have not previously 
been challenged and adjudicated by FERC. 
(iv) Public Availability of Information Requests and Responses.  Information 
requests received by SRE and SRE’s responses thereto will be posted at a 
publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website and a link to the 
website will be distributed to the PJM Exploder List; provided, however, 
that if responses to information and document requests include material 
deemed by SRE to be confidential information, such information will not 
be publicly posted but will be made available to requesting parties 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 12 
pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to be executed by SRE and the 
requesting party.   
(v) Privilege.  SRE shall not claim that responses to information and 
document requests provided pursuant to these protocols are subject to any 
settlement privilege in any subsequent proceeding addressing SRE’s 
Annual Update or Annual Projection. 
(vi) Disputes.  To the extent SRE and any Interested Person(s) are unable to 
resolve disputes related to information requests submitted in accordance 
with these Annual Review Procedures, SRE or the Interested Person(s) 
may petition the FERC to appoint an Administrative Law Judge as a 
discovery master to resolve the discovery dispute(s) in accordance with 
these Protocols and consistent with FERC’s discovery rules. 
b. Informal Challenges 
(i) Deadlines.  Interested Parties shall have the period of time from the 
Publication Date until March 1 (“Review Period”) to review the 
calculations and to notify SRE in writing of any specific challenges to the 
Annual Update and Annual Projection (“Informal Challenge”), including 
challenges related to Accounting Changes; provided, however, that such 
Review Period may be extended with the written consent of SRE or by 
FERC order.  If March 1 should fall on a weekend or a holiday recognized 
by the FERC, then Informal Challenges shall be due on the next business 
day.  SRE shall make a good faith effort to respond to Informal Challenges 
within twenty (20) days of receipt of such challenge.  SRE shall respond to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 13 
all Informal Challenges no later than April 1; provided, however, that SRE 
may reasonably extend the deadline for its own responses in the event that 
it extends the Review Period.  If April 1 should fall on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by the FERC, then SRE’s responses to Informal 
Challenges shall be due on the next business day. 
(ii) Contents and Scope.  An Interested Party submitting an Informal 
Challenge to SRE must specify the inputs, supporting explanations, 
allocations, calculations, or other information to which it objects, and 
provide an appropriate explanation and documents to support its 
challenge.  A party may raise in an Informal Challenge all issues that may 
be necessary to determine: (A) the extent, effect, or impact of an 
Accounting Change; (B) whether the True-Up Adjustment fails to include 
data properly recorded in accordance with the Protocols; (C) the proper 
application of the Template and procedures in the Protocols; (D) the 
accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the charges 
shown in the Annual Update; (E) the prudence of the actual costs and 
expenditures; (F) the effect of any change to the underlying USofA or 
applicable form; and (G) any other information that may reasonably have 
substantive effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula 
Rate. 
(iii) Responses to Informal Challenges.  In its responses, SRE shall notify the 
challenging party of the extent to which SRE agrees or disagrees with the 
challenge.  If SRE disagrees with the Informal Challenge, its response 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 14 
shall include supporting documentation. 
(iv) Public Availability of Informal Challenges and Responses.  SRE shall 
promptly cause to be posted all Informal Challenges and SRE’s responses 
to such Informal Challenges at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s 
internet website and a link to the website will be e-mailed to the PJM 
Exploder List; provided, however, that if Informal Challenges or SRE’s 
responses to such Informal Challenges include material deemed by SRE to 
be confidential information, such challenges and responses will not be 
publicly posted but will be made available to requesting parties pursuant 
to a confidentiality agreement to be executed by SRE and the requesting 
party. 
(v) Senior Representatives.  SRE, and where applicable, the transmission 
provider, shall appoint a senior representative to work with the Interested 
Person(s) that submitted the Informal Challenge (or its representative) 
toward a resolution of the challenge. 
c. Accounting Changes 
(i) Challenges Related to Accounting Changes.  Informal or Formal 
Challenges (as described in Sections 4 and 5) related to Accounting 
Changes shall be treated in the same manner under these Protocols as 
other challenges to the Annual Update or Annual Projection.  Failure to 
make an Informal Challenge with respect to an Accounting Change in an 
Annual Update or Annual Projection shall not act as a bar with respect to a 
Formal Challenge with respect to that Annual Update, nor shall such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 15 
failure bar a subsequent Informal Challenge related to a subsequent 
Annual Update to the extent such Accounting Change affects the 
subsequent Annual Update. 
(ii) Remedies.  If a change made by SRE to its accounting policies, practices 
or procedures, or the application of the Formula Rate, is found by the 
FERC to be unjust, unreasonable, or unduly discriminatory or preferential, 
then the calculation of the charges to be assessed during the Rate Year 
then under review, and the charges to be assessed during any subsequent 
Rate Years, including any True-up Adjustments, shall not include such 
change, but shall include any remedy that may be prescribed by FERC in 
the exercise of its discretion as of the effective date of such remedy, to 
ensure that the Formula Rate continues to operate in a manner that is just, 
reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. 
Section 5. Resolution of Challenges  
a. Deadlines.  Any Interested Person(s) may file a challenge with the FERC 
(“Formal Challenge”) contesting some action or inaction by SRE with respect to 
the Annual Update or Annual Projection, and shall do so no later than May 15 
following the end of the Review Period; provided, however, that such deadline 
may be extended with the written consent of SRE to continue efforts to resolve an 
issue or by FERC order.  If May 15 should fall on a weekend or a holiday 
recognized by the FERC, then Formal Challenges shall be due on the next 
business day. 
b. Contents of Formal Challenges.  Formal Challenges shall be filed pursuant to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 16 
these protocols.  All information and correspondence produced by SRE pursuant 
to these Protocols may be included in any Formal Challenge or other FERC 
proceeding relating to the Formula Rate, subject to any applicable confidentiality 
and Critical Energy Infrastructure Information restrictions.  The Interested 
Person(s) filing such a Formal Challenge shall do all of the following: 
(i) Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the 
Formula Rate (including the Template and/or these Protocols); 
(ii) Explain how the action or inaction violates the Formula Rate (including 
the Template and/or these Protocols); 
(iii) Set forth the business, commercial, economic, or other issues presented by 
the action or inaction as such relate to or affect the Interested Person(s) 
filing the Formal Challenge, including: (A) the extent or effect of an 
Accounting Change; (B) whether the True-Up Adjustment fails to include 
data properly recorded in accordance with the Protocols; (C) the proper 
application of the Template and procedures in the Protocols; (D) the 
accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the charges 
shown in the Annual Update; (E) the prudence of the actual costs and 
expenditures; (F) the effect of any change to the underlying USofA or 
applicable form; and (G) any other information that may reasonably have 
substantive effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula 
Rate; 
(iv) Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if any) 
created for the Interested Person(s) filing the Formal Challenge as a result 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 17 
of the action or inaction; 
(v) State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing Commission 
proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the Interested 
Person(s) filing the Formal Challenge is a party, and, if so, provide an 
explanation as to why timely resolution cannot be achieved in that forum; 
(vi) State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for stay 
or extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
(vii) Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in 
possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the Interested Person(s) filing 
the Formal Challenge, including, but not limited to, contracts and 
affidavits; and 
(viii) State whether the Interested Person(s) filing the Formal Challenge utilized 
the Informal Challenge procedures described in these protocols to dispute 
the action or inaction raised by the Formal Challenge, and, if not, describe 
why not. 
c. Docketing and Service.  Interested Person(s) shall submit Formal Challenges with 
the Commission in the same docket as the informational filing described in 
Section 7 and shall serve Formal Challenges on SRE by electronic service on the 
date of such filing in accordance with Section 385.2010(f)(3) of the 
Commission’s regulations. 
d. Other Requirements.  Failure to raise an issue in an Informal Challenge shall not 
bar an Interested Person from raising that issue in a Formal Challenge, provided 
the Interested Person submitted an Informal Challenge during the Review Period 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 18 
with respect to one or more other issues. 
e. Responses to Formal Challenges by SRE.  Any response by SRE to a Formal 
Challenge must be submitted to the FERC within thirty (30) calendar days of the 
date of the filing of the Formal Challenge, and shall be served on the Interested 
Person(s) filing the Formal Challenge and the PJM Exploder List on the date of 
such filing.  If such deadline should fall on a weekend or a holiday recognized by 
the FERC, then SRE’s responses to Informal Challenges shall be due on the next 
business day. 
f. Burden.  In any Formal Challenge proceeding concerning a given year’s Annual 
Update (including corrections) or Accounting Change(s), SRE shall demonstrate 
the justness and reasonableness of the rate resulting from its application of the 
Formula Rate by demonstrating that it has reasonably and accurately calculated 
the Annual Update and/or reasonably adopted and applied the Accounting 
Change. 
g. Reservation of Rights under FPA Sections 205 and 206.  Except as specifically 
provided in these Protocols, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any way 
the right of SRE to file unilaterally, pursuant to Section 205 of the FPA and the 
regulations thereunder, an application seeking changes to the Formula Rate or to 
any of the stated value inputs requiring a Section 205 filing under these Protocols 
(including, but not limited to, ROE and depreciation rates), or the right of any 
Interested Parties or the Commission to seek such changes pursuant to Section 
206 of the FPA and the regulations thereunder. 
h. Limited Section 205 Filings.  SRE may, at its discretion and at a time of its 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 19 
choosing, make a limited filing pursuant to Section 205 to modify stated values in 
the Formula Rate for depreciation rates.  SRE will submit a limited Section 205 
filing to update its depreciation rates at least once every five years thereafter.  
The sole issue in any such limited Section 205 proceeding shall be whether such 
proposed change(s) is just and reasonable, and it shall not address other aspects of 
the Formula Rate. 
Section 6. Changes to Annual Updates  
a. If SRE determines or concedes under Sections 4 and/or 5 of these Protocols that 
corrections to the Annual Update are required (including but not limited to those 
requiring corrections to its FERC Form No. 1 or input data used for a Rate Year 
that would have affected the Annual Update for that Rate Year), SRE shall 
promptly cause a correction to the Annual Update to be posted at a publicly 
accessible location on PJM’s internet website and such correction to be 
distributed to the PJM Exploder List.   
b. Such corrections shall be reflected in the next Annual Update, with interest.  
Interest on any over- or under-recovery due to corrections for preceding True-up 
Adjustments shall be calculated monthly on such over- or under-recovery from 
January 1 of the corrected Rate Year through December 31 of the Rate Year in 
which such over- or under-recovery is reflected (“Correction Period”).  That is 
equivalent to two years interest applied to over- or under- collection.  The 
applicable monthly interest rates for the Correction Period for an over-recovery or 
under-recovery shall be the annual interest rates for each month pursuant to 18 
C.F.R. § 35.19a divided by twelve (12) for each month from the beginning of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 20 
Correction Period through December 31 of the Rate Year immediately preceding 
the Rate Year in which such over-recovery is reflected. 
c. Such corrections shall be subject to review at the time they are made, and the 
corrected posting shall be followed by a review period (“Correction Review 
Period”), during which the scope of review shall be limited to the aspects of the 
Annual Update affected by the corrections.  SRE and any Interested Person(s) 
shall work together in good faith to set a reasonable duration for such Correction 
Review Period and the deadlines for submission and/or responses to information 
and document requests, Informal Challenges, and Formal Challenges. 
Section 7. Informational Filing  
a. Deadline.  SRE shall submit to FERC an informational filing (“Informational 
Filing”) of its projected Net Revenue Requirement for a Rate Year, including the 
True-Up Adjustment determined during the preceding Annual Update, by April 
15 of the Rate Year; provided, however, that SRE may delay the deadline for 
filing the Informational Update to account for any previous delays in the Review 
Period or deadline for submitting or responding to Informal Challenges.  If April 
15 should fall on a weekend or a holiday recognized by the FERC, then the 
Informational Filing shall be due on the next business day. 
b. Contents.  This Informational Filing must include the information that is 
reasonably necessary to determine: (i) that input data under the formula rate are 
properly recorded in any underlying workpapers; (ii) that SRE has properly 
applied the formula rate and these procedures; (iii) the accuracy of data and the 
consistency with the formula rate of the Net Revenue Requirement and rates 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 21 
under review; (iv) the extent of Accounting Changes that affect Formula Rate 
inputs; and (v) the reasonableness of projected costs.  The Informational Filing 
must also describe any corrections or adjustments made during that period, and 
must describe all aspects of the Annual Update or its inputs that are the subject of 
an ongoing dispute under the Informal or Formal Challenge procedures.  Finally, 
the Informational Filing shall include for the applicable Rate Year the following 
information related to affiliate cost allocation: a detailed description of the 
methodologies used to allocate and directly assign costs between SRE and its 
affiliates by service category or function; the magnitude of such costs that have 
been allocated or directly assigned between SRE and each affiliate by service 
category or function; and a copy of any service agreement between SRE and any 
SRE affiliate that went into effect during the Rate Year. 
c. Challenges.  Any challenges to the implementation of the Template must be made 
through the procedures described in Sections 4 and 5 of these protocols or in a 
separate complaint proceeding, and must not be made in response to the 
Informational Filing. 
Section 8. Joint Informational Meeting  
Transmission Owners with transmission projects that are subject to region-wide cost 
sharing shall endeavor to hold a joint informational meeting to enable all Interested Parties to 
understand how those Transmission Owners are implementing their formula rates for cost 
recovery of such projects (“Joint Informational Meeting”).  Notice of the Joint Informational 
Meeting, including the time, date, and location, shall be posted on the PJM website and 
distributed to the PJM Exploder List no less than seven (7) days prior to such meeting, and the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-27B - Silver Run Rate Implementation Prot. 
Effective Date: 9/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2504-000 - Page 22 
Transmission Owners shall provide remote access to Joint Informational Meetings to allow all 
Interested Parties the opportunity to remotely participate in such meetings.  SRE will participate 
in Joint Informational Meetings once it begins development of a project for which costs are to be 
regionally allocated.  If a certain deadline for Interested Parties falls on a weekend or holiday 
recognized by the Commission, then the deadline will be extended to the next business day. 
Section 9. Competitive Concessions  
For transmission development projects assigned to SRE as a result of the PJM 
competitive proposal process, SRE may, in its sole discretion, agree with PJM to apply a 
competitive concession that will result in a lower Net Revenue Requirement on a project-specific 
basis than that which would otherwise be produced by the SRE Attachment H-27A formula rate.  
Any competitive concession will appear as a zero or negative input to the formula, and will be 
determined on a project-specific basis using a workpaper that will be provided to Interested 
Parties as supporting documentation for each SRE Annual Update. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28 - MAIT Annual Transmission Rates 
Effective Date: 7/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-211-000 - Page 1 
