ATTACHMENT H-10B 
Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
 
Section 1 Annual Updates & True-Up Adjustments 
a. The ATRR calculated under Attachment H-10A shall be applicable to services on 
and after October 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008, and shall be applicable 
thereafter for services on and after each January 1 of a given calendar year 
through December 31 of such calendar year (the “Rate Year”).   
b. On or before June 15, 2009, and on or before June 15 of each succeeding Rate 
Year (“Publication Date”), PSE&G shall calculate the true-up pursuant to the 
Formula Rate (Attachment H-10A, Attachment 6) (the “True-Up Adjustment”) 
and cause it to be posted on the PJM website (www.PJM.com, or successor 
thereto) and filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or successor 
thereto (“FERC”) for informational purposes only (“Informational Filing”).  The 
submission of such Informational Filing with FERC shall not require any action 
by the agency.  
c.  The Informational Filing must include the information that is reasonably 
necessary to determine:  
(1) that input data under the formula rate are properly recorded in any underlying 
workpapers;  
(2) that the Transmission Owner has properly applied the formula rate and these 
procedures;  
(3) the accuracy of data and the consistency with the formula rate of the Actual 
Transmission Revenue Requirement and rates under review; 
(4) the extent of accounting changes that affect formula rate inputs; 
(5)  the reasonableness of projected costs included in the projected capital 
addition expenditures (for forward-looking rates). 
d. On or before October 15, 2008, and on or before October 15 of each succeeding 
Rate Year, PSE&G shall recalculate its ATRR, producing the “Annual Update” 
for the upcoming Rate Year.  As part of the Annual Update, PSE&G shall include 
its projected net revenue requirement, including information in workpapers 
regarding projected costs of plant in forecasted rate base, expected construction 
schedule and in-service dates.  All inputs shall be provided in sufficient detail to 
identify the components of PSE&G’s net revenue requirement. PSE&G shall 
cause such Annual Update to be posted on PJM’s website (www.PJM.com, or 
successor thereto) and submit such Annual Update as an informational filing with 
the FERC (“Posting Date”).  The submission of such informational filing with 
FERC shall not require any action by the agency. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-10B - Public Service Electric and Gas Co 
Effective Date: 8/1/2021 - Docket #: ER22-81-000 - Page 2 
e. If the Publication Date, the Posting Date, or any deadline date in Section 2 and 3 
of the Protocols falls on a weekend or a holiday recognized by the FERC, then the 
Publication Date, Posting Date, or deadline date as applicable, shall be the next 
business day. 
f.        PSE&G will post on the PJM website and promptly make available to any 
Interested Party a “workable” Excel file containing that year’s True-Up 
Adjustment and/or Annual Update.  In the event that the information is not 
otherwise publicly available, PSE&G will provide to Interested Parties a 
description of the basis upon which transmission projects were planned either by 
PJM or PSE&G.  For purposes of these procedures, the term Interested Party, 
includes but is not limited to, customers under the Tariff, state utility regulatory 
commissions, the Organization of PJM States, Inc., consumer advocacy agencies 
and state attorneys general. 
g. Between fifteen (15) and thirty (30) days after the Posting Date, PSE&G shall hold 
a public meeting to explain the Annual Update for the next calendar year and 
answer questions concerning the Annual Update for the next Rate Year 
(“Customer Meeting”).  PSE&G will provide for the opportunity for remote 
participation at Customer Meetings. 
h. PSE&G shall modify the Annual Update to reflect any changes that it and the 
Interested Parties agree upon by no later than December 15, and shall cause the 
revised Annual Update to be posted on the PJM website (www.PJM.com, or 
successor thereto) no later than December 15.  PSE&G shall cause the Annual 
Update, as revised pursuant to the procedures set out above, to be included in the 
informational filing with FERC by no later than December 15.  Such 
informational filing will not require any FERC action. 
i. To ensure that Interested Parties receive sufficient advance notice of Customer 
Meetings, PSE&G shall schedule each Customer Meeting at least four (4) months 
in advance and cause such notice to be posted on its website, www.PSEG.com (or 
successor thereto) and the PJM website (www.PJM.com, or successor thereto) and 
provide Interested Parties, via e-mail to the most recent e-mail address provided to 
PSE&G notice of the Customer Meeting.   
j.  The True-Up Adjustment for the Rate Year: 
(i) shall, to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, be based upon 
PSE&G’s FERC Form 1 data for the most recent calendar year, and to 
the extent specified in the Formula Rate, be based upon the books and 
records of PSE&G consistent with FERC accounting policies; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-10B - Public Service Electric and Gas Co 
Effective Date: 8/1/2021 - Docket #: ER22-81-000 - Page 3 
(ii) shall, as and to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, provide 
supporting documentation for data not otherwise available in the FERC 
Form 1 that are used in the Formula Rate;1 
 
(iii)  shall provide notice of any change in accounting, including financial 
reporting changes in the FERC Form No. 1, from that in effect for the 
calendar year upon which the preceding Annual Update was based that 
affects inputs to the Formula Rate or the resulting charges under the 
Formula Rate (“Accounting Changes”), including:   
 
(1) the initial implementation of an accounting standard (such as a new 
requirement under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”) or changes to GAAP) or policy, consistent with what is 
required to be disclosed under FERC Form No. 1;   
 
(2) the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific 
accounting direction;   
 
(3) For the accounting changes as described above, any related 
reclassifications, including mapping changes, among FERC accounts 
between calendar years; 
 
(4) the correction of errors and prior period adjustments that impact 
FERC Account 439 or other FERC Accounts included in the Annual 
Update calculation; 
 
(5) the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that 
change prior estimates. 
 
(6) the implementation of changes in accounting valuation, period of 
recognition for revenue and expense items, account classification, or 
presentation in the FERC Form No. 1.  
 
In the absence of specific FERC guidance, the Company will report the 
items noted above in (1) through (6) as defined under GAAP ASC 250 
"Accounting Changes and Error Corrections" and any other applicable GAAP 
guidance. 
 
1 It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations described therein, that 
each input to the Formula Rate True-Up Adjustment will be either taken directly from the FERC Form 1 or 
reconcilable to the FERC Form 1 by the application of clearly identified and supported information.  Where the 
reconciliation in the True-Up Adjustment is provided through a worksheet included in the filed Formula Rate 
template, the inputs to the worksheet must meet this transparency standard, and doing so will satisfy this 
transparency requirement for the amounts that are output from the worksheet and input to the main body of the 
Formula Rate. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-10B - Public Service Electric and Gas Co 
Effective Date: 8/1/2021 - Docket #: ER22-81-000 - Page 4 
(iv)  shall be subject to review and challenge and  in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Section 2 and Section 3 of this  Attachment H-
10B and only as to the appropriateness of the application of the Formula 
Rate according to its terms and the procedures in this Attachment H-10B 
(including terms and procedures related to challenges concerning 
Accounting Changes);  
 
(v)  shall be subject to review with respect to the prudence of any costs and 
expenditures incurred in the last five years , provided, however, that the 
initial burden to raise a substantial doubt as to the prudence of any  
expenditures shall be upon the Interested Party raising the challenge; and 
 
(vi)  shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be subject to 
challenge by anyone seeking to modify the Formula Rate (i.e., all such 
modifications to the Formula Rate – including return on equity will 
require, as applicable, a Federal Power Act (“FPA”) Section 205 or 
Section 206 filing). 
 
k. If PSE&G files any corrections to a previously submitted FERC Form 1 or 
otherwise makes accounting corrections that would affect the Formula Rate for 
the current or a prior Rate Year, such corrections and any resulting refunds or 
surcharges shall be reflected in the Annual Update and True-Up Adjustment for 
the next effective Rate Year, with interest. 
l. Interest on any True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery shall be calculated on 
the Over/Under Recovery during each month of the True-Up Year, during each 
month of the succeeding year (“Intermediate Year”) (12 months-True-up Year 
plus one), and during each month of the year in which the true-up will be billed 
and collected (“Projection Year”) (True-Up Year plus two).  The total True-Up 
Adjustment and interest for the 36 months described above will be added to (or 
deducted from) the ATRR during the 12 months of the Projection Year.  
For example, the 2020 True-Up Adjustment will be calculated in 2021 and will be 
billed or credited to customers during 2022.  The True-Up Adjustments will 
include interest calculations over a 36-month period, including the 12 months 
during the True-Up year (2020), the 12 months during the Intermediate Year 
(2021) and the 12 months during the Projection Year (2022) in which the True-Up 
Adjustment is remitted to customers. 
 
The rates used to calculate interest for True-Up Adjustments will be sourced 
directly from the FERC website in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a.  The 
monthly interest rate used to calculate interest during each month of the 
Projection Year will be based on an average of the 12 monthly interest rates 
during the Intermediate Year.  Interest True-up Adjustments will be compounded 
quarterly in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a. 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-10B - Public Service Electric and Gas Co 
Effective Date: 8/1/2021 - Docket #: ER22-81-000 - Page 5 
m.  If after October 15, but prior to December 15 of the then current calendar year, 
PJM determines the actual peak load for NITS for the PSE&G Zone that will be 
used by the Transmission Provider to determine each Network Customer’s Zone 
Network Load pursuant to Section 34.1 of the Tariff differs from the value used to 
calculate the ATRR to be in effect pursuant to Attachment H-10A for the next 
calendar year, the rate for NITS shall be adjusted to reflect the updated Network 
Service Peak Load and PSE&G shall cause an updated calculation of the Rate for 
NITS to be posted on the PJM website (www.PJM.com, or successor thereto) no 
later than fifteen (15) business days following the posting by PJM of the actual 
Network Service Peak Load for the PSE&G Zone.  
n. Formula Rate inputs for (i) rate of return on common equity; (ii) extraordinary 
property losses, and (iii) depreciation and/or amortizations shall be stated values 
to be used in the Formula Rate until changed pursuant to an FPA Section 205 or 
206 proceeding.  PSE&G may make a limited Section 205 filing to change its 
amortization/depreciation rates or add new amortization/depreciation rates, and 
extraordinary property losses, in which the sole issue for examination in any such 
limited Section 205 filing shall be whether such proposed changes are just and 
reasonable, and shall not include other aspects of the formula rate.   
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-10B - Public Service Electric and Gas Co 
Effective Date: 8/1/2021 - Docket #: ER22-81-000 - Page 6 
Construction Work in Progress 
 
a. Accounting. PSE&G shall use the following accounting procedures for CWIP- 
transmission projects as authorized by the Commission to ensure that it does not 
recover an Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (“AFUDC”) to the 
extent that it has been authorized by a Commission order to include 100 percent 
of Construction Work in Progress (“CWIP”) in transmission rate base. 
(i) PSE&G shall assign each authorized incentive transmission project a 
unique Funding Project Number (“FPN”) for internal cost tracking 
purposes. 
(ii) PSE&G shall record actual construction costs to each FPN through work 
orders that are coded to correspond to the FPN for each incentive 
transmission project.  Such work orders shall be segregated from work 
orders for non-incentive transmission projects for which the Commission 
has not authorized PSE&G to include any portion of CWIP in rate base. 
(iii) For each incentive transmission project, PSE&G shall prepare monthly 
work order summaries of costs incurred under the associated FPN.  These 
summaries shall show monthly additions to CWIP and plant in service and 
shall correspond to amounts recorded in PSE&G’s FERC Form 1.  
PSE&G shall use these summaries as data inputs into the Annual Update 
calculated on Attachment 6A of the Formula Rate.  PSE&G shall make 
such work order summaries available upon request under the review 
procedures of Section 3. 
(iv) When an incentive transmission project, or portion thereof, is placed into 
service, PSE&G shall deduct from the total CWIP the accumulated 
charges for work orders under the FPN for that project, or portion thereof.  
The purpose of this control process is to ensure that expenditures are not 
double counted as both CWIP and as additions to plant. 
(v) For non-incentive transmission projects, PSE&G shall record AFUDC to 
be applied to CWIP and capitalized when the project is placed into 
service. 
(vi)   PSE&G shall cease to accrue (or not accrue at all) AFUDC on the portion 
of transmission project CWIP included in rate base.  
b. Annual Reporting.  For each incentive project listed on Attachment 7 of the 
Formula Rate for which the Commission has authorized PSE&G to include any 
portion of CWIP in transmission rate base, PSE&G shall file a report with the 
Commission at the time of PSE&G’s Publication Date that shall include the 
following information concerning each such project: 
(i) the actual amount of CWIP recorded for each project; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-10B - Public Service Electric and Gas Co 
Effective Date: 8/1/2021 - Docket #: ER22-81-000 - Page 7 
(ii) any amounts recorded in related FERC accounts or subaccounts, such as 
AFUDC and regulatory liability; 
(iii) the resulting effect on the CWIP revenue requirement; 
(iv) a statement of the current status of each project; and 
(v) the estimated in-service date for each project. 
Section 2 Annual Review Procedures 
 
Each True-Up Adjustment and/or Accounting Change shall be subject to the following review 
procedures (“Annual Review Procedures”): 
 
a.  Interested Parties shall have up to one hundred fifty (150) days after each annual 
Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of 
PSE&G with such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) to serve reasonable 
information requests on PSE&G (“Review Period”); provided, however, that 
Interested Parties shall make a good faith effort to submit consolidated sets of 
information requests that limit the number and overlap of questions to the 
maximum extent practicable.  Such information requests shall be limited to what 
is necessary to determine if PSE&G has properly calculated the True-Up 
Adjustment and its components and the procedures in this Attachment H-10B, and 
shall not otherwise be directed to ascertaining whether the Formula Rate is just 
and reasonable.   
b.  PSE&G shall make a good faith effort to respond to information requests 
pertaining to the True-Up Adjustments or Accounting Changes within fifteen (15) 
business days of receipt of such requests.  PSE&G may give reasonable priority to 
responding to requests that satisfy the practicable coordination and consolidation 
provision of Section 2.a above. 
c. If PSE&G and any Interested Party are unable to resolve disputes related to 
information requests submitted in accordance with these Annual Review 
Procedures, PSE&G or the Interested Party may petition FERC to appoint an 
Administrative Law Judge as a discovery master.  The discovery master shall 
have the power to issue binding orders to resolve discovery disputes and compel 
the production of discovery, as appropriate, in accordance with the Annual 
Review Procedures and consistent with FERC’s discovery rules. 
d. Interested Parties shall have until December 31 (or 21 days after the production of 
information as a result of the resolution of a discovery dispute under Section 2.c) 
to notify PSE&G in writing of any specific challenges, including challenges 
related to the rate treatment of Accounting Changes, to the application of the 
Formula Rate (“Preliminary Challenge”).  The time period for Interested Parties 
to raise Preliminary Challenges is the “Preliminary Challenge Period.” 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-10B - Public Service Electric and Gas Co 
Effective Date: 8/1/2021 - Docket #: ER22-81-000 - Page 8 
e. Preliminary or Formal Challenges (as defined under Section 3.a, below) are not 
intended to serve as a means of pursuing other objections to the Formula Rate.   
f. Preliminary or Formal Challenges related to Accounting Changes shall be subject 
to the resolution procedures and limitations in Section 3, except that Section 3.d 
shall not apply.  In any proceeding initiated to address a Preliminary or Formal 
Challenge or sua sponte by the FERC, a party or parties (other than PSE&G) 
seeking to modify the Formula Rate in any respect shall bear the burden of 
proving that the Formula Rate is no longer just and reasonable without such 
modification and that the proposed modification is just, reasonable and consistent 
with the original intent of the Formula Rate and the procedures in this Attachment 
H-10B; provided, however, that in any such proceeding, in determining whether 
the Formula Rate is no longer just and reasonable without modification to an 
Accounting Change and whether the proposed modification is just and reasonable, 
no offsets unrelated to the applicable Accounting Changes may be considered. 
 
Section 3 Resolution of Challenges 
 
a. If PSE&G and any Interested Party(ies) have not resolved any Preliminary 
Challenge to the True-Up Adjustment or Accounting Change within the 
Preliminary Challenge Period, an Interested Party shall have an additional twenty-
one (21) days (unless such period is extended with the written consent of PSE&G 
to continue efforts to resolve the Preliminary Challenge, which consent shall not 
be unreasonably withheld) to file a complaint with the FERC, pursuant to 18 
C.F.R. § 385.206 (“Formal Challenge”), which shall be served on PSE&G by 
electronic service on the date of such filing.  However, there shall be no need to 
make a Formal Challenge or to await conclusion of the Preliminary Challenge 
Period if the FERC already has initiated a proceeding to consider the True-Up 
Adjustment or Accounting Changes.   
b. If PSE&G and an Interested Party agree upon a resolution to a Preliminary 
Challenge to that year’s True-Up Adjustment or Accounting Change by 
November 30, such resolution shall be reflected in the next Annual Update as 
provided in Section 1.f.  Otherwise, any resolution to a Preliminary Challenge, or 
a Formal Challenge, if applicable, shall be reflected in the first Annual Update 
following resolution of the challenge, with interest. 
c. Any response by PSE&G to a Formal Challenge must be submitted to the FERC 
within thirty (30) days of the date of the filing of the Formal Challenge, unless 
such time period is extended by the mutual agreement of PSE&G and the 
Interested Party filing a Formal Challenge or by FERC, and shall be served on the 
filing party(ies) by electronic service on the date of such filing. 
d. Except as provided in Section 3.e, in any proceeding initiated in response to a 
Formal Challenge and in any proceeding initiated by the FERC concerning the 
current year’s True-Up Adjustment or Accounting Change, PSE&G shall bear the 
burden of proving that it has reasonably applied the terms of the Formula Rate, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-10B - Public Service Electric and Gas Co 
Effective Date: 8/1/2021 - Docket #: ER22-81-000 - Page 9 
the applicable procedures in these Formula Rate Implementation Protocols, in that 
year’s True-Up Adjustment, and to demonstrate the justness and reasonableness 
of the charges resulting from the application of the formula rate. 
e. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in 
any way the right of PSE&G to file unilaterally, pursuant to FPA Section 205 and 
the regulations thereunder, to change the Formula Rate or any of its inputs  
(including, but not limited to, rate of return and transmission incentive rate 
treatment), or to replace the Formula Rate with a stated rate, or the right of any 
other party to request such changes pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal Power 
Act and the regulations thereunder. 
f. Subject to Section 3.e  above, it is recognized that resolution of Formal 
Challenges concerning Accounting Changes may necessitate adjustments to the 
Formula Rate input data for the applicable True-Up Adjustment or changes to the 
rate formula to achieve a just and reasonable end result consistent with the intent 
of the Formula Rate.  Such adjustments shall be reflected in the next Annual 
Update after resolution of the Formal Challenge to an Accounting Change. 
Section 4 Changes to Annual Informational Filings 
Any changes to the data inputs, including but not limited to revisions to PSE&G’s FERC Form 1, 
or as the result of any FERC proceeding to consider the True-Up Adjustment or Accounting 
Change, or as a result of the procedures set forth herein, shall be incorporated into the Formula 
Rate and the charges produced by the Formula Rate (with interest determined in accordance with 
18 C.F.R. § 38.19a) in the Annual Update for the next effective Rate Period.  This reconciliation 
mechanism shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments and any refunds or surcharges.  
However, actual refunds or surcharges (with interest determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. 
§38.19a) for the then current Rate Year shall be made in the event that the Formula Rate is 
replaced by a stated rate by PSE&G. 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-11 - Allegheny Power 
Effective Date: 2/10/2025 - Docket #: ER25-688-000 - Page 1 
