[ATTACHMENT H-33B - Part 10 of 10]

such transmission plant and a narrative explanation of the individual impact of such items 
to the Annual Update. 
E. The ATRR shall: 
1. Include a workable data-populated version of the Formula Rate template and 
underlying work papers in Excel format with all formulas and links intact; 
2. Be based on Valley Link WV’s FERC Form No. l for the prior calendar year; 
3. Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting 
documentation and work papers for data that are used in the ATRR that are not 
otherwise available in the FERC Form No. ls, subject to the protection of any 
confidential information, as needed, under the Protective Agreement and Non-
Disclosure Certificate; 
4. Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the 
calculation of the ATRR results from the FERC Form No. ls; 
5. Identify any changes in the formula references (page and line numbers) to the FERC 
Form No. ls; 
6. Identify and, to the extent not explained in a worksheet included in the ATRR, 
explain, all material adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data in 
determining formula inputs, including relevant footnotes to the FERC Form No. 
ls and any adjustments not shown in the FERC Form No. ls; 
7. Provide underlying data for Formula Rate inputs that provide greater granularity 
than is required for the FERC Form No. 1; 
8. As part of the ATRR open meeting, Valley Link WV shall provide a summary of 
the actual year results to the PTRR for the same rate period, to accompany further 
discussion of key drivers of the ATRR and PTRR.  
9. With respect to any change in accounting that affects inputs to the Formula Rate or 
the resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate (“Accounting Change”): 
a. Identify any Accounting Change, including: 
i. the initial adoption of a new accounting standard or policy; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-39B - Valley Link WV 
Effective Date: 5/14/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1633-000 - Page 4 
ii. the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific 
accounting direction; 
iii. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that affect the 
ATRR and True-up calculation; 
iv. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that 
change prior estimates;  
v. changes to income tax elections; and 
vi. the initial implementation of accounting changes in the reporting of 
the FERC Form No. 1 accounts from the prior year to the current 
year to the extent such change(s) affect(s) the Formula Rate revenue 
requirement: changes in (1) FERC’s Uniform System of Accounts, 
(2) FERC Form No. 1 reporting requirements as applicable, (3) any 
FERC ratemaking orders applicable to the Formula Rate, and (4) the 
accounting policies of Valley Link WV. 
b. Identify items included in the ATRR at an amount other than on a historic 
cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
c. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year 
and explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to 
the ATRR;  
d. Provide, for each Accounting Change, a narrative explanation of the 
individual impact of such change on the ATRR; and 
10. Include for the applicable Rate Year the following information related to affiliate 
cost allocation: (A) a detailed description of the methodologies used to allocate and 
directly assign costs between Valley Link WV and its affiliates by service category 
and function, including any changes to such cost allocation methodologies from the 
prior year, and the reasons and justification for those changes; and (B) the 
magnitude of such costs that have been allocated or directly assigned between 
Valley Link WV and each affiliate by service category or function. 
 
F. It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocation 
described therein, that each input to the Formula Rate will be either taken directly from 
FERC Form No. 1 or reconcilable to FERC Form No. 1 by the application of clearly 
identified and supported information. If the referenced form is superseded, the successor 
form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as necessary to provide equivalent information 
as that provided in the superseded form. If the referenced form(s) is (are) discontinued, 
equivalent information as that provided in the discontinued form(s) shall be utilized. 
G. The PTRR shall: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-39B - Valley Link WV 
Effective Date: 5/14/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1633-000 - Page 5 
1. Include a workable data-populated version of the Formula Rate template and 
underlying work papers in Excel format with all formulas and links intact; 
2. Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting 
documentation and work papers for data that are used in the PTRR; 
3. Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the 
calculation of the PTRR. If transmission plant is projected to be placed in service 
(PTRR) or actually placed in service (ATRR) in the respective rate period at an 
amount other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments), Valley Link 
WV will provide a worksheet identifying such transmission plant and a narrative 
explanation of the individual impact of such items to the Annual Update; 
4. With respect to any Accounting Change: 
a. Identify any Accounting Change, including: 
i. the initial adoption of a new accounting standard or policy; 
ii. the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific 
accounting direction; 
iii. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that affect the 
PTRR calculation; 
iv. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that 
change prior estimates;  
v. changes to income tax elections;  
 
vi. the initial implementation of accounting changes in the reporting of 
the FERC Form 1 accounts from the prior year to the current year to 
the extent such change(s) affect(s) the Formula Rate revenue 
requirement: changes in (1) FERC’s Uniform System of Accounts, 
(2) FERC Form No. 1 reporting requirements as applicable, (3) any 
FERC ratemaking orders applicable to the Formula Rate, and (4) the 
accounting policies of Valley Link WV. 
b. Identify items included in the PTRR at an amount other than on a historic 
cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
c. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year 
and explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to 
the PTRR; and 
d. Provide, for each Accounting Change, a narrative explanation of the 
individual impact of such change on the PTRR. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-39B - Valley Link WV 
Effective Date: 5/14/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1633-000 - Page 6 
H. If the date for posting the Annual Update or PTRR falls on a weekend or a holiday 
recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be due on the next business day. The date on 
which posting of the Annual Update occurs shall be that year's Publication Date. Any delay 
in the Publication Date or in the posting of the PTRR will result in an equivalent extension 
of time for the submission of information requests discussed in Section III of these 
Protocols. 
I. Commencing at the time that Valley Link WV’s formula rate is initially populated, Valley 
Link WV shall hold an open meeting among Interested Parties (“Annual Update Meeting”), 
to be conducted via Internet webcast, no earlier than ten (10) business days following the 
Publication Date and no later than July 15. No fewer than seven (7) days prior to such 
Annual Update Meeting, Valley Link WV shall provide notice on PJM’s website of the 
time and date of the Annual Update Meeting, and shall provide notice of the posting via 
the e-mail exploder list for Valley Link WV. The Annual Update Meeting shall: (i) permit 
Valley Link WV to explain and clarify its ATRR and True-up; and (ii) provide Interested 
Parties an opportunity to seek information and clarifications from Valley Link WV about 
the ATRR and True-up. 
J. Commencing at the time that Valley Link WV’s formula rate is initially populated, Valley 
Link WV shall hold an open meeting among Interested Parties (“Annual Projected Rate 
Meeting”), to be conducted via Internet webcast.  Commencing at the time that Valley Link 
WV’s formula rate is initially populated, the Annual Projected Rate Meeting shall be no 
earlier than seven (7) business days following the posting of the PTRR (as described in 
Section II.C of these Protocols) and no later than November 30.  No fewer than seven (7) 
days prior to such Annual Projected Rate Meeting, Valley Link WV shall provide notice 
on PJM’s website of the time and date of the Annual Projected Rate Meeting, and shall 
provide notice of the posting via the e-mail exploder list for Valley Link WV. The Annual 
Projected Rate Meeting shall: (i) permit Valley Link WV to explain and clarify its PTRR 
and (ii) provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and clarifications 
from Valley Link WV about the PTRR. 
Section III.  Information Exchange Procedures 
Each Annual Update and PTRR shall be subject to the following information exchange procedures 
(“Information Exchange Procedures”): 
A. Commencing at the time that Valley Link WV’s formula rate is initially populated, 
Interested Parties shall have until August 31 following the Annual Update posting date 
(unless such period is extended with the written consent of Valley Link WV or by FERC 
order) to serve a first set of information and document requests on Valley Link WV 
pertaining to the Annual Update. Interested parties shall have until January 15 to serve 
follow-up information and document requests pertaining to the Annal Update (together 
with the August 31 deadline, the “ATRR Information Exchange Period”), but such requests 
must be specifically limited to clarification or additional information regarding Valley Link 
WV’s responses provided to any sets of information and document requests issued to 
Valley Link WV on or before August 31.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-39B - Valley Link WV 
Effective Date: 5/14/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1633-000 - Page 7 
Interested Parties shall have until January 15 following the PTRR posting date (unless such 
period is extended with the written consent of Valley Link WV or by FERC order) to serve 
reasonable information and document requests on Valley Link WV pertaining to the PTRR 
(“PTRR Information Exchange Period”). If August 31 or January 15 falls on a weekend or 
a holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for submitting all information and document 
requests shall be extended to the next business day. Such information and document 
requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine: 
1. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change on the inputs to the Formula Rate or 
the resulting charges under the Formula Rate; 
2. whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded in accordance 
with these Protocols; 
3. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these Protocols; 
4. the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations 
shown in the ATRR or PTRR; 
5. the prudence of actual costs and expenditures included in the ATRR or the 
reasonableness of projected costs and expenditures included in the PTRR; 
6. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or FERC 
Form No. 1; or 
7. any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
The information and document requests shall not be directed to ascertaining whether the Formula 
Rate is just and reasonable. 
B.  Valley Link WV shall make a good faith effort to respond to any information and document 
request within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such request. Commencing at the time 
that Valley Link WV’s formula rate is initially populated, Valley Link WV shall respond 
to all information and document requests by no later than February 25 following the 
Publication Date, unless the ATRR Information Exchange Period or PTRR Information 
Exchange Period is extended with written consent of Valley Link WV or by FERC order. 
C. Valley Link WV shall not claim that responses to information and document requests 
provided pursuant to these Protocols are subject to any settlement privilege in any 
proceeding addressing Valley Link WV’s Annual Update or PTRR, and such responses 
may be included in any Formal Challenge or other submittal addressing Valley Link WV’s 
Annual Update or PTRR. 
D. Valley Link WV shall use best efforts to timely notify the proponent of an Information 
Request if all or any part of an Information Request is unclear or the subject matter is 
outside the scope of Section III.B. If the parties are unable to resolve any dispute regarding 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-39B - Valley Link WV 
Effective Date: 5/14/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1633-000 - Page 8 
an information request, the matter may be referred to the FERC Dispute Resolution 
Service.   
Section IV.  Challenge Procedures 
A. Interested Parties shall have until March 31 following the Publication Date (unless such 
period is extended with the written consent of Valley Link WV or by FERC order) 
(“Review Period”) to review the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations and 
calculations and to notify Valley Link WV in writing, which may be made electronically, 
of any specific Preliminary Challenges to the Annual Update or PTRR. If the final day of 
the Review Period falls on a holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for submitting all 
Preliminary Challenges shall be extended to the next business day. An Interested Party 
may not pursue a Formal Challenge unless it submitted a Preliminary Challenge on some 
issue (which may be different from the Formal Challenge issue) during the applicable 
Review Period. Failure to raise an issue in one year’s Formal Challenge shall not bar the 
lodging of that issue as related to a subsequent Annual Update or PTRR. This Section 
IV.A in no way shall affect a party’s rights under Federal Power Act (“FPA”) section 206 
as set forth in Section IV.I of these Protocols. 
B. Preliminary Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in this 
Section IV. Preliminary Challenges shall be filed pursuant to these Protocols and shall 
satisfy all of the following requirements.  
1. A party submitting a Preliminary Challenge to Valley Link WV must specify the 
inputs, supporting explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information to 
which it objects, and provide an explanation and documents to support its 
challenge. 
2. Valley Link WV shall make a good faith effort to respond to any Preliminary 
Challenge within twenty (20) business days of written receipt of such challenge. 
3. Valley Link WV, and where applicable, PJM, shall appoint a senior representative 
to work with each party that submitted a Preliminary Challenge (or its 
representative) toward a resolution of the challenge. 
4. If Valley Link WV disagrees with such challenge, they will provide the Interested 
Party(ies) with a written explanation supporting the inputs, supporting 
explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information. 
5. No Preliminary Challenge may be submitted after March 31, and Valley Link WV 
must respond to all Preliminary Challenges by no later than April 30 unless the 
Review Period is extended with written consent of Valley Link WV or by FERC 
order, or as provided in Section IV.A above. 
6. Valley Link WV will serve all Preliminary Challenges and its response(s) to such 
Preliminary Challenges upon any Interested Party that requests such service, 
subject to the protection of any confidential information contained in such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-39B - Valley Link WV 
Effective Date: 5/14/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1633-000 - Page 9 
Preliminary Challenges or responses, as needed, under the Protective Agreement 
and Non-Disclosure Certificate. 
C. Formal Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in this 
Section IV. Formal Challenges shall be filed pursuant to these Protocols and shall satisfy 
all of the following requirements. 
1. A Formal Challenge shall: 
a. Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the filed 
Formula Rate or these Protocols; 
b. Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed Formula Rate or these 
Protocols; 
c. Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues presented by 
the action or inaction as such relate to or affect the party filing the Formal 
Challenge, including: 
i. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
ii. whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded 
in accordance with these Protocols; 
iii. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these 
Protocols; 
iv. the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
charges shown in the ATRR or PTRR; 
v. the prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
vi. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of 
Accounts or FERC Form No. 1; or 
vii. any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect 
on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
d. Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if any) 
created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of the challenged 
action or inaction; 
e. State whether the claim(s) presented are pending in an existing Commission 
proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the filing party is a 
party, and if so, provide an explanation why timely resolution cannot be 
achieved in that forum; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-39B - Valley Link WV 
Effective Date: 5/14/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1633-000 - Page 10 
f. State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for stay 
or extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
g. Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in 
possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, including, but not 
limited to, contracts and affidavits; and 
2. Service. Any person filing a Formal Challenge must serve a copy of such Formal 
Challenge on Valley Link WV. Service to Valley Link WV must be simultaneous 
with filing at FERC. Simultaneous service can be accomplished by electronic mail 
in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 385.2010, express delivery, or messenger. A party 
filing a Formal Challenge shall serve the individual listed as the contact person on 
Valley Link WV’s Informational Filing required under Section VI of these 
Protocols. 
D.  Preliminary and Formal Challenges shall be limited to all issues that may be necessary to 
determine: 
1. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
2. whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded in accordance 
with these Protocols, or includes data not properly recorded in accordance with 
these Protocols; 
3. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these Protocols; 
4. the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations 
shown in the ATRR and PTRR; 
5. the prudence of actual costs and expenditures included as inputs to the Formula 
Rate; 
6. the reasonableness of any projection that forms a basis of the PTRR; 
7. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or FERC 
Form No. 1; or 
8. any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
E. Any changes or adjustments to the ATRR and PTRR resulting from the information 
exchange and Preliminary Challenge processes that are agreed to by Valley Link WV will 
be reported in the applicable Informational Filing required pursuant to Section VI of these 
Protocols. Any such changes or adjustments agreed to by Valley Link WV on or before 
December 1 will be reflected in the PTRR for the upcoming Rate Year. Any changes or 
adjustments agreed to by Valley Link WV after December 1 will be reflected in the 
following year’s Annual Update, as discussed in Section V of these Protocols. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-39B - Valley Link WV 
Effective Date: 5/14/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1633-000 - Page 11 
F. An Interested Party shall have until June 1 following the Review Period (unless such date 
is extended with the written consent of Valley Link WV to continue efforts to resolve the 
Preliminary Challenge) to make a Formal Challenge with FERC, which shall be served on 
Valley Link WV on the date of such filing as specified in Section IV.C.2 above. A Formal 
Challenge shall be filed in the same docket as Valley Link WV’s Informational Filing 
discussed in Section VI of these Protocols. Valley Link WV shall respond to the Formal 
Challenge by the deadline established by FERC.   
G. In any proceeding initiated by FERC concerning the Annual Update or PTRR or in 
response to a Formal Challenge, Valley Link WV shall bear the burden, consistent with 
FPA section 205, of proving that it has correctly applied the terms of the Formula Rate 
consistent with these Protocols, and that it followed the applicable requirements and 
procedures in the Formula Rate. Nothing herein is intended to alter the burdens applied by 
FERC with respect to prudence challenges. 
H. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any way 
the right of Valley Link WV to file unilaterally, pursuant to FPA section 205 and the 
regulations thereunder, to change these Protocols, the Formula Rate, or any of its inputs 
(including, but not limited to, rate of return and transmission incentive rate treatment), or 
to replace the Formula Rate with a stated rate, or the right of any other party to request 
such changes pursuant to FPA section 206. 
I. Valley Link WV reserves the right to file under FPA section 205: (i) to modify the stated 
values for amortization and depreciation rates in the filed template, (ii) to reflect ministerial 
changes to the FERC Form 1 reporting requirements (i.e., changes in account descriptions 
or line numbers that do not reflect changes in the nature or type of costs or expenses 
recorded therein), or (iii) to seek recovery of prudently-incurred abandoned plant expenses.  
Interested Parties may have the right to contest such filing(s), but the sole issue in any such 
limited Section 205 proceeding shall be whether the proposed limited change is just and 
reasonable, and it shall not address other aspects of the Formula Rate. 
J. Any Interested Party seeking changes to the application of the Formula Rate due to a change 
in the Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 shall first raise the matter with 
Valley Link WV in accordance with this Section IV before pursuing a Formal Challenge. 
Section V.  Changes to Actual Transmission Revenue Requirement or 
Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement 
Except as provided in Section IV.E of these Protocols, any changes to the data inputs, 
including but not limited to revisions to Valley Link WV’s FERC Form No. l, or as the 
result of any FERC proceeding to consider the ATRR or PTRR, or as a result of the 
procedures set forth herein, shall be incorporated into the Formula Rate and the charges 
produced by the Formula Rate in the PTRR for the next Rate Year. This true-up mechanism 
shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments. Interest on any refund or surcharge shall 
be calculated in accordance with the procedures outlined in Section VII of these Protocols. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-39B - Valley Link WV 
Effective Date: 5/14/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1633-000 - Page 12 
Section VI.  Informational Filings 
A. Commencing at the time that Valley Link WV’s formula rate is initially populated, Valley 
Link WV shall submit to FERC informational filings (Informational Filing) of its PTRR 
for the Rate Year or ATRR for the Rate Year as applicable under the respective procedures 
set forth in Section II. The relevant Informational Filing must include information that is 
reasonably necessary to determine: 
1. that input data to the Formula Rate are properly recorded in any underlying work 
papers; 
2. that Valley Link WV has properly applied the Formula Rate and these Protocols; 
3. the accuracy of data and the consistency with the Formula Rate of the transmission 
revenue requirement and rates under review; 
4. the extent of Accounting Changes that affect Formula Rate inputs; and 
5. the reasonableness of projected costs. 
The Informational Filing must also describe any corrections or adjustments made during 
the period since the Publication Date, and must describe all aspects of the Formula Rate or 
its inputs that are the subject of an ongoing dispute under the Preliminary Challenge or 
Formal Challenge procedures. 
Finally, the Informational Filing shall include for the applicable Rate Year the following 
information related to affiliate cost allocation: a detailed description of the methodologies 
used to allocate and directly assign costs between Valley Link WV and its affiliates by 
service category or function, including any changes to such cost allocation methodologies 
from the prior Rate Year, and the reasons and justification for those changes; the magnitude 
of such costs that have been allocated or directly assigned between Valley Link WV and 
each affiliate by service category or function; and a copy of any service agreement between 
Valley Link WV and any affiliate that went into effect during the Rate Year. 
On the date of submission to FERC, Valley Link WV shall provide notice of the 
Informational Filing via the e-mail exploder list for Valley Link WV and by posting the 
docket number assigned to Valley Link WV’s relevant Informational Filing on the PJM 
website, subject to the protection of any confidential information contained in the 
Informational Filing, as needed, under the Protective Agreement and Non-Disclosure 
Certificate. 
B. Any challenges to the implementation of the Formula Rate must be made through the 
challenge procedures described in Section IV of these Protocols or in a separate complaint 
proceeding, and not in response to the Informational Filing. 
Section VII.  Calculation of True-up 
The True-up will be determined in the following manner: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-39B - Valley Link WV 
Effective Date: 5/14/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1633-000 - Page 13 
A. As part of the Annual Update for each Rate Year, Valley Link WV shall determine the 
difference between the revenues received by Valley Link WV corresponding to the rate 
effective period based on the PTRR for the Rate Year (net of the True-up from the prior 
year) and the ATRR for the same Rate Year based on actual cost data as reflected in its 
FERC Form No. l. The True-up will be determined as follows: 
1. The ATRR for the previous Rate Year as determined using Valley Link WV’s 
completed FERC Form No. 1 report shall be compared to the revenues received by 
Valley Link WV corresponding to the rate effective period based on the PTRR (net 
of the True-up from the prior year) for that same Rate Year (“True-up Year”) to 
determine any excess or shortfall in the revenues received by Valley Link WV 
corresponding to the rate effective period in the True-up Year. The revenue excess 
or shortfall determined by this comparison shall constitute the “True-up.” 
2. Interest on any True-up shall be based on the interest rate equal to the interest rate 
determined by 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a. Interest rates will be used to calculate the time 
value of money for the period that the True-up exists. The interest rate to be applied 
to the True-up will be determined using the average rate for the twenty (20) months 
preceding September 1 of the current year. Interest on refunds and surcharges shall 
be compounded on a quarterly basis. 
B. Valley Link WV will post on PJM's website all information relating to the True-up as part 
of the Annual Update. As provided in Section II.B of these Protocols, Valley Link WV 
shall provide its Annual Update for the immediately preceding calendar year to PJM and 
cause such information to be posted on the PJM website on or before June 15 of each year 
subsequent to calendar year 2025. 
Section VIII.  Formula Rate Inputs 
A. Fixed components to the Formula Rate: for (i) rate of return on common equity; and (ii) 
depreciation and/or amortization rates, the values in the Formula Rate shall be stated values 
specified in the Formula Rate and may be changed only pursuant to a FPA section 205 or 
section 206 proceeding; provided, however, that Valley Link WV may at its discretion and 
at a time of its choosing, make a limited, single-issue Section 205 filing to revise the stated 
depreciation rates and/or amortization rates. All parties reserve the right to contest such 
filing(s), but the sole issue in any such limited Section 205 proceeding shall be whether 
such proposed change is just and reasonable, and it shall not address other aspects of the 
Formula Rate. 
B. Unpopulated Formula Rate line items: with respect to line items in the Formula Rate that 
are not currently populated with non-zero numerical values because FERC policy requires 
prior authorization for recovery of the underlying costs or because, due to the nature of the 
associated functional activities, such costs are not considered part of Valley Link WV’s 
transmission-related revenue requirement (but not line items that are zero values in a 
particular Rate Year for the sole reason that no such costs or revenues were incurred or 
revenues received or projected to be incurred or received during the Rate Year), such line 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-39B - Valley Link WV 
Effective Date: 5/14/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1633-000 - Page 14 
items shall not be populated with non-zero values except as may be authorized following 
a FPA section 205 or section 206 proceeding. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-A - Non-Zone Network Load 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1599-000 - Page 1 
