[ATTACHMENT I - Part 9 of 12]

non unit-specific Dynamic Schedule exports out of the PJM Region, shall be the product of the 
positive or negative deviation in energy amounts and the Dynamic Schedule’s weighted average 
interface real-time Locational Marginal Price at the applicable Interface Pricing Point for all 
hours of that month.  
 
The monthly meter correction charge for Pseudo-Tie generator exports and unit-specific 
Dynamic Schedule exports out of the PJM Region shall be the product of the positive or negative 
deviation in energy amounts and the difference between the weighted average interface real-time 
Locational Marginal Price at the applicable Interface Pricing Point, and the generation weighted 
average Locational Marginal Price at that generator’s bus, for all hours of that month. 
 
 
3.6.2 Meter Corrections Between Market Participants. 
 
If a Market Participant or the Office of the Interconnection discovers a meter error affecting an 
interchange of energy with another Market Participant and makes the error known to such other 
Market Participant prior to the completion by the Office of the Interconnection of the accounting 
for the interchange, and if both Market Participants are willing to adjust hourly load records to 
compensate for the error and such adjustment does not affect other parties, an adjustment in load 
records may be made by the Market Participants in order to correct for the meter error, provided 
corrected information is furnished to the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with the 
Office of the Interconnection’s accounting deadlines.  No such adjustment may be made if the 
accounting for the Operating Day in which the interchange occurred has been completed by the 
Office of the Interconnection.  If this is not practical, the error shall be accounted for by a 
correction at the end of the billing cycle.  The Market Participants experiencing the error shall 
account for the full amount of the discrepancy and an appropriate debit or credit shall be applied 
to the Market Participants.  For Market Participants that are Electric Distributors that request the 
debit and credit to be further allocated to all Network Service Users in their territory (as 
documented in the PJM Manuals), where all Load Serving Entities in the respective Electric 
Distributor territory agree, the appropriate debit or credit shall be applied among Network 
Service Users in proportion to their deliveries to load served in the applicable territory. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 3. ACCOUNTING 
AND BILLING --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 3.6 Metering Reconciliation 
Effective Date: 12/3/2019 - Docket #: ER19-469-002 - Page 2 
 
3.6.3 500 kV Meter Errors. 
 
Billing shall be adjusted to account for errors in meters on 500 kV Transmission Facilities within 
the PJM Pre-Expansion Zones (excluding Allegheny Power) or between the PJM Pre-Expansion 
Zones (excluding Allegheny Power) and Allegheny Power.  The Market Participant with the tie 
meter or generator meter experiencing the error shall account for the full amount of the 
discrepancy and an appropriate debit or credit shall be applied among Electric Distributors that 
report hourly net energy flows from metered Tie Lines in the Pre-Expansion Zones (excluding 
Allegheny Power) in proportion to the load consumed in their territories.  The error shall be 
accounted for by a correction at the end of the billing cycle.  For Market Participants that are 
Electric Distributors that request the debit and credit to be further allocated to all Network 
Service Users in their territory (as documented in the PJM Manuals), where all Load Serving 
Entities in the respective Electric Distributor territory agree, the appropriate debit or credit shall 
be applied among Network Service Users in proportion to their deliveries to load served in the 
applicable territory.  Such allocation shall not include purchases of Direct Charging Energy. 
 
3.6.4 Meter Corrections Between Control Areas. 
 
An error between accounted for and metered interchange between a Party in the PJM Region and 
an entity in a Control Area other than the PJM Region shall be corrected by adjusting the hourly 
meter readings.  If this is not practical, the error shall be accounted for by a correction at the end 
of the billing cycle.  The Market Participant with ties or Dynamic Transfers with such other 
Control Area experiencing the error shall account for the full amount of the discrepancy.  
However, if the meter correction applies to a tie on the 500 kV system between the PJM Pre-
Expansion Zones (excluding Allegheny Power) and other Control Areas, Electric Distributors 
that report hourly net energy flows from metered Tie Lines in the Pre-Expansion Zones 
(excluding Allegheny Power) shall account for the full amount of the discrepancy in proportion 
to the load consumed in their territories.  The appropriate debit or credit shall be applied among 
Network Service Users in proportion to their deliveries to load served in the PJM Region.  Such 
allocation shall not include purchases of Direct Charging Energy.  The Office of the 
Interconnection will adjust the actual or scheduled interchange between the other Control Area 
and the PJM Region to maintain a proper record of inadvertent energy flow.   
 
3.6.5 Meter Correction Data. 
 
Meter error data shall be submitted to the Office of the Interconnection not later than the last 
Business Day of the month following the end of the monthly billing cycle applicable to the meter 
correction. 
 
3.6.6 Correction Limits. 
 
A Market Participant may not assert a claim for an adjustment in billing as a result of a meter 
error for any error discovered more than two years after the date on which the metering occurred.  
Any claim for an adjustment in billing as a result of a meter error shall be limited to bills for 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 3. ACCOUNTING 
AND BILLING --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 3.6 Metering Reconciliation 
Effective Date: 12/3/2019 - Docket #: ER19-469-002 - Page 3 
transactions occurring in the most recent annual accounting period of the billing Market 
Participant in which the meter error occurred, and the prior annual accounting period. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 3. ACCOUNTING 
AND BILLING --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 3.7 Inadvertent Interchange 
Effective Date: 12/3/2019 - Docket #: ER19-469-002 - Page 1 
3.7 Inadvertent Interchange. 
 
Inadvertent Interchange will be reconciled each hour by a charge allocation (positive or negative) 
applied to Network Service Users in proportion to their deliveries to load in the PJM Region, 
which shall be the product of the positive or negative Inadvertent Interchange amount times the 
PJM load weighted average Locational Marginal Price for that hour.  Such allocation shall not 
include purchases of Direct Charging Energy. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 3. ACCOUNTING 
AND BILLING --> OATT ATT K APPX Sec 3.8 Market-to-Market Coordination 
Effective Date: 8/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1730-000 - Page 1 
3.8 Market-to-Market Coordination 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall charge or credit a Market Participant for the 
transmission congestion from the Market Participant’s Pseudo-Tie generator within 
MISO to the PJM-MISO interface resulting from market-to-market coordination pursuant 
to this Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.8, and the parallel provisions of 
Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.8.  The Office of the Interconnection shall 
calculate such charges and credits for the Real-time Energy Market for each Pseudo-Tie 
generator using the following formulas.   
 
RT Charge / CreditPT = RT CLMPPT * DevMWPT 
 
Where: 
 
RTCLMPPT = ∑RT ShadowPriceFG * (RT ShiftFactorFG,PT – RT ShiftFactorFG,Interface) 
 
RTCLMPPT = Real-time congestion LMP for the path from 
the Pseudo-Tie generator to the MISO-PJM 
common interface. 
 
RT ShadowPriceFG = Real-time shadow price for each M2M 
Flowgate calculated in accordance with the 
Joint Operating Agreement between the 
Midcontinent Independent Transmission 
System Operator, Inc. and PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. 
 
RT ShiftFactorFG,PT = Real-time shift factor for the Pseudo-Tie 
generator and each M2M Flowgate. 
 
 
Where: 
 
DevMWPT = (RT MWPT – DA MWPT) 
 
DevMWPT =  The megawatt deviation between the cleared 
megawatts in the Day-ahead Energy Market 
and Real-time Energy Market megawatt 
output for a Pseudo-Tie generator. 
 
RT MWPT = Real-time Energy Market megawatt output 
for the Pseudo-Tie generator. 
 
DA MWPT = Cleared and committed megawatts for a 
Pseudo-Tie generator in the Day-ahead 
Energy Market. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 3. ACCOUNTING 
AND BILLING --> OATT ATT K APPX Sec 3.8 Market-to-Market Coordination 
Effective Date: 8/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1730-000 - Page 2 
 
The dollars refunded to or collected from the Pseudo-Tie generator will be, respectively, 
distributed from or added to the Balancing Congestion Charges fund. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 4. [Reserved] 
Effective Date: 10/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2905-000 - Page 1 
4. [Reserved For Future Use] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE 
Effective Date: 6/30/2024 - Docket #: ER24-374-001 - Page 1 
5. CALCULATION OF CHARGES AND CREDITS FOR TRANSMISSION 
CONGESTION AND LOSSES 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.1 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 8/5/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2079-000 - Page 1 
5.1 Transmission Congestion Charge Calculation. 
 
5.1.1 Calculation by Office of the Interconnection.   
 
When the transmission system is operating under constrained conditions, or as necessary to 
provide third-party transmission provider losses, the Office of the Interconnection shall calculate 
Transmission Congestion Charges for each Network Service User, Market Participants in the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market, and each Transmission Customer. 
 
If a dollar-per-MW-hour value is applied in a calculation under this section 5.1 where the 
interval of the value produced in that calculation is less than an hour, then for purposes of that 
calculation the dollar-per-MW hour value is divided by the number of Real-time Settlement 
Intervals in the hour. 
 
5.1.2 General.   
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall calculate Congestion Prices in the form of Day-ahead 
Congestion Prices and Real-time Congestion Prices for the PJM Region, in accordance with 
Section 2 of this Schedule. 
 
5.1.3 Network Service User and Market Participant Calculations.   
 
 (a) Each Network Service User shall be charged for the increased cost of energy 
incurred by it during each constrained hour to deliver the output of its firm Generation Capacity 
Resources or other owned or contracted for resources, its firm bilateral purchases, and its non-
firm bilateral purchases as to which it has elected to pay Transmission Congestion Charges.   
 
 (b) For each Day-ahead Settlement Interval, Market Participants shall be charged for 
transmission congestion resulting from all Market Participant Energy Withdrawals scheduled in 
the Day-ahead Energy Market at the Day-ahead Congestion Prices applicable to each relevant 
location at which both the Market Participant withdraws energy and such energy is priced. 
 
 (c) For each Day-ahead Settlement Interval, Market Participants shall be reimbursed 
for transmission congestion resulting from all Market Participant Energy Injections scheduled in 
the Day-ahead Energy Market at the Day-ahead Congestion Prices applicable to each relevant 
location at which the Market Participant injects energy and such energy is priced. 
 
 (d)  The day-ahead component of a Market Participant’s Transmission Congestion 
Charge is equal to the difference between the total day-ahead transmission congestion 
withdrawal charge calculated in subsection (b) and the total day-ahead transmission congestion 
injection credit calculated in subsection (c). 
 
 
 (e) (i) The amount of energy delivered at each generation bus is determined by 
revenue meter data if available, or by the State Estimator, if revenue meter data is not available.  
The total load actually served at each load bus is initially determined by the State Estimator.  For 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.1 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 8/5/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2079-000 - Page 2 
each Electric Distributor that reports hourly net energy flows from metered tie lines and for 
which all generators within the Electric Distributor’s territory report revenue quality, hourly net 
energy delivered, the total revenue meter load within the Electric Distributor’s territory is 
calculated as the sum of all net import energy flows reported by their tie revenue meters and all 
net generation reported via generator revenue meters.  The amount of load at each of such 
Electric Distributor’s load buses calculated by the State Estimator is then adjusted, in proportion 
to its share of the total load of that Electric Distributor, in order that the total amount of load 
across all of the Electric Distributor’s load buses matches its total revenue meter calculated load. 
 
(ii) To determine the amount of load served by each LSE in an Electric Distributor’s 
territory, PJMSettlement utilizes the information submitted into PJM’s internal energy 
scheduling tool by LSEs and Electric Distributors for their respective load settlements (“load 
contract”), including the names of the LSE responsible for serving the load and the Electric 
Distributor in whose territory the load is located, the number of megawatts of load assigned to 
the LSE for each hour, the Energy Settlement Area at which load is to be priced, and the start 
and end dates for the load contract.  During the settlements process, load assigned to an LSE at a 
specified Energy Settlement Area is further assigned to individual load buses included in the 
Energy Settlement Area, based on the definition for the Energy Settlement Area as defined in 
Section 31.7 of the PJM Tariff, which specifies the percentage of the Energy Settlement Area 
that each bus represents, to identify the LSE’s hourly megawatts of load at each bus.  All 
megawatts of load assigned to LSEs in an Electric Distributor’s territory as described herein are 
subtracted from the total megawatts of load for which the Electric Distributor is responsible as 
determined in subsection (e)(i) above. 
 
(iii)  Electric Distributors that hold Provider of Last Resort (“POLR”) auctions or similar 
load auctions may direct PJM to automatically assign megawatt hours for which the Electric 
Distributor is responsible, as determined in subsection (e)(ii) above, to the LSEs whose bids were 
accepted in the auction (“POLR Suppliers”) based on the tranches the POLR Suppliers won in 
the auction, as a billing service, based on their contracts associated with the POLR load 
programs. In such case, the POLR Supplier’s share of load shall be determined by multiplying 
the megawatt hours at each bus that were not specifically assigned under load contracts by the 
percentage of load won by the POLR Supplier in proportion to its share of the total POLR load 
of the Electric Distributor.   This billing service may also apply to Electric Distributors and LSEs 
that mutually agree upon a transfer of load from the EDC to the LSE based upon a specified 
percentage of the megawatt hours at each bus that were not specifically assigned under load 
contracts. 
 
 (f) For each Real-time Settlement Interval, Market Participants shall be assessed for 
Transmission Congestion Charges (positive or negative) in accordance with the following 
equation: 
 
 [(A – B) * C] – [(D – E) * C]  
Where: 
A = The Market Participant Energy Withdrawal megawatts in real-time at the location at 
which both the Market Participant withdraws energy and such energy is priced;  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.1 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 8/5/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2079-000 - Page 3 
B = The Market Participant Energy Withdrawal megawatts in day-ahead at the location at 
which both the Market Participant withdraws energy and such energy is priced; 
 
 C = Real-time Congestion Price; 
 
D = The Market Participant Energy Injection megawatts in real-time at the location at 
which both the Market Participant injects energy and such energy is priced; and  
 
E = The Market Participant Energy Injection megawatts in day-ahead at the location at 
which both the Market Participant injects energy and such energy is priced. 
 
 
(g) The Revenue Data for Settlements determined for each Real-time Settlement Interval in 
accordance with section 3.1A of this Schedule shall be used in determining the real-time 
Market Participant Energy Withdrawals and Market Participant Energy Injections used to 
calculate Transmission Congestion Charges under subsection (f). 
  
5.1.4 Transmission Customer Calculation.   
 
Each Transmission Customer using Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service (as defined in the 
PJM Tariff), each Network Customer, and each Transmission Customer using Non-Firm Point-
to-Point Transmission Service (as defined in the PJM Tariff) that has elected to pay 
Transmission Congestion Charges, shall be charged for the increased cost of energy during the 
applicable constrained settlement interval for the delivery of energy using such Transmission 
Service.    
 
(a) For each Day-ahead Settlement Interval, Transmission Congestion Charges shall be 
assessed for transmission use scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy Market, calculated as 
the scheduled amount to be delivered multiplied by the difference between the Day-ahead 
Congestion Price at the delivery point or the delivery Interface Pricing Point at the 
boundary of the PJM Region and the Day-ahead Congestion Price at the source point or 
the source Interface Pricing Point at the boundary of the PJM Region.  
  
(b) For each Real-time Settlement Interval, Transmission Congestion Charges shall be 
assessed for real-time transmission use in excess of the amounts scheduled for the 
applicable interval in the Day-ahead Energy Market, calculated as the excess amount 
multiplied by the difference between the Real-time Congestion Price at the delivery point 
or the delivery Interface Pricing Point at the boundary of the PJM Region, and the Real-
time Congestion Price at the source point or the source Interface Pricing Point at the 
boundary of the PJM Region.  For each Real-time Settlement Interval, a Transmission 
Customer shall be paid for Transmission Congestion Charges for real-time transmission 
use falling below the amounts scheduled for the applicable interval in the Day-ahead 
Energy Market, calculated as the shortfall amount multiplied by the difference between 
the Real-time Congestion Price at the delivery point or the delivery Interface Pricing 
Point at the boundary of the PJM Region, and the Real-time Congestion Price at the 
source point or the source Interface Pricing Point at the boundary of the PJM Region.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.1 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 8/5/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2079-000 - Page 4 
 
5.1.4A Transaction Calculation.   
 
Each Market Participant entering into transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Markets shall 
be charged for the increased cost of energy during the applicable constrained settlement interval 
for the delivery of energy on the scheduled path.   
 
 
(a) For each Day-ahead Settlement Interval, Transmission Congestion Charges shall be 
assessed for the transaction MWh scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy Market, calculated 
as the scheduled amount to be delivered multiplied by the difference between the Day-
ahead Congestion Price at the sink point and the Day-ahead Congestion Price at the 
source point.  
 
(b) For each Real-time Settlement Interval, Transmission Congestion Charges shall be 
assessed for real-time MWh in excess of the amounts scheduled for the applicable 
interval in the Day-ahead Energy Market, calculated as the excess amount multiplied by 
the difference between the Real-time Congestion Price at the sink point and the Real-time 
Congestion Price at the source point.  Such Market Participant shall be paid for 
Transmission Congestion Charges for real-time MWh falling below the amounts 
scheduled for the applicable interval in the Day-ahead Energy Market, calculated as the 
shortfall amount multiplied by the difference between the Real-time Congestion Price at 
the sink point and the Real-time Congestion Price at the source point.  The Revenue Data 
for Settlements determined for each Real-time Settlement Interval in accordance with 
section 3.1A of this Schedule shall be used in determining the real-time transactions used 
to calculate Transmission Congestion Charges under this subsection (b).   
 
5.1.5 Operating Margin Customer Calculation. 
 
Each Control Area purchasing Operating Margin shall be assessed Transmission Congestion 
Charges for any increase in the cost of energy resulting from the provision of Operating Margin.  
The Transmission Congestion Charge shall be the amount of Operating Margin purchased in the 
applicable settlement interval multiplied by the difference in the Locational Marginal Price at 
what would be the delivery Interface Pricing Point and the Locational Marginal Price at what 
would be the source Interface Pricing Point, if the operating contingency that was the basis for 
the purchase of Operating Margin had occurred in that hour.  Operating Margin may be allocated 
among multiple source and delivery Interface Pricing Points in accordance with an applicable 
load flow study. 
 
5.1.6  Reserved.  
 
5.1.7  Reserved.   
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.2 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 6/30/2024 - Docket #: ER24-374-002 - Page 1 
5.2 Transmission Congestion Credit Calculation. 
 
5.2.1 Eligibility.   
 
 (a) Except as provided in section 5.2.1(b), each FTR Holder shall receive as a 
Transmission Congestion Credit a proportional share of the Day-ahead Energy Market 
Transmission Congestion Charges collected for each constrained hour. 
 
 (b) If an Effective FTR Holder between specified delivery and receipt buses acquired 
the Financial Transmission Right in a Financial Transmission Rights auction (the procedures for 
which are set forth in section 7 of this Attachment K – Appendix) and had a Virtual Transaction 
portfolio which includes Increment Offer(s), Decrement Bid(s), and/or Up-to Congestion 
Transaction(s) that was accepted by the Office of the Interconnection for an applicable hour in 
the Day-ahead Energy Market, whereby the Effective FTR Holder’s Virtual Transaction 
portfolio resulted in (i) a difference in Location Marginal Prices in the Day-ahead Energy Market 
between such delivery and receipt buses which is greater than the difference in Locational 
Marginal Prices between such delivery and receipt buses in the Real-time Energy Market, and 
(ii) an increasing the value between such delivery and receipt buses, then the Market Participant 
shall not receive any Transmission Congestion Credit associated with such Financial 
Transmission Right in such hour, that is attributable to the absolute value (i.e., the product of the 
constraint’s shadow price times the distribution factor (dfax) of the difference between the 
Financial Transmission Right delivery and receipt buses) of the relevant Day-ahead Energy 
Market binding constraint (as further discussed in section 5.2.1(c) below), but no more than the 
excess of one divided by the number of hours in the applicable period multiplied by the amount 
that the Market Participant paid for the Financial Transmission Right in the Financial 
Transmission Rights auction (i.e., FTR profit).  For the purposes of this calculation, every 
individual Financial Transmission Right of an Effective FTR Holder shall be considered. 
 
 (c) For purposes of section 5.2.1(b), an Effective FTR Holder’s Virtual Transaction 
portfolio shall be considered if the absolute value of the attributable net flow across a Day-ahead 
Energy Market binding constraint relative to the Day-ahead Energy Market load weighted 
reference bus between the Financial Transmission Right delivery and receipt buses exceeds the 
physical limit of such binding constraint by the greater of 0.1 MW or ten percent. 
 
 (d) The Market Monitoring Unit shall calculate Transmission Congestion Credits 
pursuant to this section and Tariff, Attachment M-Appendix, section VI. Nothing in this section 
shall preclude the Market Monitoring Unit from action to recover inappropriate benefits from the 
subject activity if the amount forfeited is less than the benefit derived by the Effective FTR 
Holder. If the Office of the Interconnection agrees with such calculation, then it shall impose the 
forfeiture of the Transmission Congestion Credit accordingly. If the Office of the 
Interconnection does not agree with the calculation, then it shall impose a forfeiture of 
Transmission Congestion Credit consistent with its determination. If the Market Monitoring Unit 
disagrees with the Office of the Interconnection’s determination, it may exercise its powers to 
inform the Commission staff of its concerns and may request an adjustment.  This provision is 
duplicated in Tariff, Attachment M-Appendix, section VI.  An Effective FTR Holder objecting to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.2 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 6/30/2024 - Docket #: ER24-374-002 - Page 2 
the application of this rule shall have recourse to the Commission for review of the application of 
the FTR forfeiture rule to its trading activity. 
 
5.2.2 Financial Transmission Rights. 
 
 (a) Transmission Congestion Credits will be calculated based upon the Financial 
Transmission Rights held at the time of the constrained hour. Except as provided in subsection 
(e) below, Financial Transmission Rights shall be auctioned as set forth in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 7.   
 
 (b) The hourly economic value of a Financial Transmission Right Obligation is based 
on the Financial Transmission Right MW reservation and the difference between the Day-ahead 
Congestion Price at the point of delivery and the point of receipt of the Financial Transmission 
Right.  The hourly economic value of a Financial Transmission Right Obligation is positive (a 
benefit to the FTR Holder) when the Day-ahead Congestion Price at the point of delivery is 
higher than the Day-ahead Congestion Price at the point of receipt.  The hourly economic value 
of a Financial Transmission Right Obligation is negative (a liability to the FTR Holder) when the 
Day-ahead Congestion Price at the point of receipt is higher than the Day-ahead Congestion 
Price at the point of delivery. 
 
 (c) The hourly economic value of a Financial Transmission Right Option is based on 
the Financial Transmission Right MW reservation and the difference between the Day-ahead 
Congestion Price at the point of delivery and the point of receipt of the Financial Transmission 
Right when that difference is positive.  The hourly economic value of a Financial Transmission 
Right Option is positive (a benefit to the FTR Holder) when the Day-ahead Congestion Price at 
the point of delivery is higher than the Day-ahead Congestion Price at the point of receipt. The 
hourly economic value of a Financial Transmission Right Option is zero (neither a benefit nor a 
liability to the FTR Holder) when the Day-ahead Congestion Price at the point of receipt is 
higher than the Day-ahead Congestion Price at the point of delivery. 
 
 (d) In addition to transactions with PJMSettlement in the Financial Transmission 
Rights auctions administered by the Office of the Interconnection, a Financial Transmission 
Right, for its entire tenure or for a specified period, may be sold or otherwise transferred by a 
FTR Holder to a third party by bilateral agreement, subject to compliance with such procedures 
as may be established by the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
  (i) Market Participants may enter into bilateral agreements for the transfer of 
Financial Transmission Rights, for their entire tenure or for specified periods.  Such bilateral 
agreements shall be reported to the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with this 
Attachment K – Appendix and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, Section 5.2.2(d), and the 
LLC’s rules related to its FTR reporting tools.   
 
  (ii) For purposes of clarity, with respect to all bilateral agreements for the 
transfer of Financial Transmission Rights, the rights and obligations pertaining to the Financial 
Transmission Rights transferred thereunder shall pass to the purchaser under such bilateral 
agreement subject to the provisions of this Attachment K – Appendix and Operating Agreement, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.2 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 6/30/2024 - Docket #: ER24-374-002 - Page 3 
Schedule 1, Section 5.2.2(d).  The seller of Financial Transmission Rights in a bilateral 
agreement shall confirm to the Office of Interconnection, through the FTR reporting tools 
provided by the Office of Interconnection, that the seller has no continuing interest in the 
Financial Transmission Rights following their transfer.  Such bilateral agreements shall not 
modify the location or reconfigure the Financial Transmission Rights transferred thereunder.  In 
no event shall the purchase and sale of a Financial Transmission Right pursuant to a bilateral 
agreement constitute a transaction with PJMSettlement or a transaction in any auction under this 
Attachment K – Appendix and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, Section 5.2.2(d).   
 
  (iii) Consent of the Office of the Interconnection shall be required for a seller 
to transfer any Financial Transmission Right Obligation to a purchaser.  Such consent shall be 
based upon the Office of the Interconnection’s assessment of the purchaser’s ability to perform 
the obligations, including meeting applicable creditworthiness requirements, transferred in the 
bilateral agreement.  If consent for a transfer is not provided by the Office of the Interconnection, 
the title to the Financial Transmission Rights shall not transfer to the third party and the FTR 
Holder shall continue to receive all Transmission Congestion Credits attributable to the Financial 
Transmission Rights and remain subject to all credit requirements and obligations associated 
with the Financial Transmission Rights.   
 
  (iv) A seller under such a bilateral agreement shall guarantee and indemnify 
the Office of the Interconnection, PJMSettlement, and the Members for the purchaser’s 
obligation to pay any charges associated with the transferred Financial Transmission Right and 
for which payment is not made to PJMSettlement by the purchaser under such a bilateral 
agreement.   
 
  (v) All payments and related charges associated with such a bilateral 
agreement shall be arranged between the parties to such bilateral agreement and shall not be 
billed or settled by PJMSettlement or the Office of the Interconnection.  The LLC, 
PJMSettlement, and the Members will not assume financial responsibility for the failure of a 
party to perform obligations owed to the other party under such a bilateral agreement reported to 
the Office of the Interconnection under this Attachment K – Appendix and Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, Section 5.2.2(d).   
 
  (vi) All claims regarding a default of a purchaser to a seller under such a 
bilateral agreement shall be resolved solely between the purchaser and the seller.  Reports of 
bilateral Financial Transmission Rights agreements shall include all primary economic terms 
(PET) data requested by the Office of Interconnection through its FTR reporting tools.  A report 
of a bilateral Financial Transmission Rights agreement shall be made no later than 48 hours 
following the execution of such agreement between the parties, and changes to any previously 
reported PET data shall be reported to the Office of Interconnection within 48 hours. The 
purchaser in a bilateral Financial Transmission Rights agreement shall upload the underlying 
contract document to the Office of Interconnection within 48 hours of execution to allow for 
verification of reported PET data; provided, however, that if the underlying contract document is 
in the form of a standard master agreement (such as the ISDA Master Agreement), the purchaser 
shall be required to upload the bilateral Financial Transmission Rights transaction confirmation 
including any and all special terms and provisions contained in the parties’ agreement.  All 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.2 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 6/30/2024 - Docket #: ER24-374-002 - Page 4 
underlying contract documents which are provided to the Office of Interconnection pursuant to 
the requirements set forth herein shall be treated as confidential.  
 
  (vii) PET shall include (1) the name of the seller, (2) the name of the buyer, (3) 
the FTR start date and (4) end date, (5) the quantity of the FTR transferred, (6) the source and 
sink of the underlying FTR, (7) the FTR market auction in which the FTRs were originally 
purchased, (8) the FTR class, (9) the price and (10) execution date of the FTR bilateral 
agreement. The Price field shall reflect the actual price executed and confirmed between parties 
for each FTR transaction or the executed and confirmed full value of the FTR bundle. 
 
 (e) Network Service Users and Firm Transmission Customers that take service that 
sinks, sources in, or is transmitted through new PJM zones, at their election, may receive a direct 
allocation of Financial Transmission Rights instead of an allocation of Auction Revenue Rights.  
Network Service Users and Firm Transmission Customers may make this election for the 
succeeding two annual FTR auctions after the integration of the new zone into the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market.  Such election shall be made prior to the commencement of each 
annual FTR auction.   For purposes of this election, the Allegheny Power Zone shall be 
considered a new zone with respect to the annual Financial Transmission Right auction in 2003 
and 2004.  Network Service Users and Firm Transmission Customers in new PJM zones that 
elect not to receive direct allocations of Financial Transmission Rights shall receive allocations 
of Auction Revenue Rights.  During the annual allocation process, the Financial Transmission 
Right allocation for new PJM zones shall be performed simultaneously with the Auction 
Revenue Rights allocations in existing and new PJM zones.  Prior to the effective date of the 
initial allocation of FTRs in a new PJM Zone, PJM shall file with FERC, under section 205 of 
the Federal Power Act, the FTRs and ARRs allocated in accordance with sections 5 and 7 of this 
Schedule 1. 
 
 (f) For Network Service Users and Firm Transmission Customers that take service 
that sinks in, sources in, or is transmitted through new PJM zones, that elect to receive direct 
allocations of Financial Transmission Rights, Financial Transmission Rights shall be allocated 
using the same allocation methodology as is specified for the allocation of Auction Revenue 
Rights in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.2 and in accordance with the following:   
 
  (i) Subject to subsection (ii) of this section, all Financial Transmission Rights 
must be simultaneously feasible. If all Financial Transmission Right requests made when 
Financial Transmission Rights are allocated for the new zone are not feasible then Financial 
Transmission Rights are prorated and allocated in proportion to the MW level requested and in 
inverse proportion to the effect on the binding constraints. 
 
  (ii) If any Financial Transmission Right requests that are equal to or less than 
sixty percent (60%) of a Network Service User’s proportion of peak load in the Zone or fifty 
percent of its transmission responsibility for Non-Zone Network Load, or fifty percent of 
megawatts of firm service between the receipt and delivery points of Firm Transmission 
Customers, are not feasible in the annual allocation and auction processes due to system 
conditions, then PJM shall increase the capability limits of the binding constraints that would 
have rendered the Financial Transmission Rights infeasible to the extent necessary in order to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.2 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 6/30/2024 - Docket #: ER24-374-002 - Page 5 
allocate such Financial Transmission Rights without their being infeasible for all rounds of the 
annual allocation and auction processes, provided that this subsection (ii) shall not apply if the 
infeasibility is caused by extraordinary circumstances.  Additionally, such increased limits shall 
be included in subsequent modeling during the Planning Year to support any incremental 
allocations of Auction Revenue Rights and monthly and balance of the Planning Period Financial 
Transmission Rights auctions; unless and to the extent those system conditions that contributed 
to infeasibility in the annual process are not extant for the time period subject to the subsequent 
modeling, such as would be the case, for example, if transmission facilities are returned to 
service during the Planning Year.  In these cases, any increase in the capability limits taken 
under this subsection (ii) during the annual process will be removed from subsequent modeling 
to support any incremental allocations of Auction Revenue Rights and monthly and balance of 
the Planning Period Financial Transmission Rights auctions.  In addition, PJM may remove or 
lower the increased capability limits, if feasible, during subsequent FTR Auctions if the removal 
or lowering of the increased capability limits does not impact Auction Revenue Rights funding 
and net auction revenues are positive. 
 
For the purposes of this subsection (ii), extraordinary circumstances shall mean an event of force 
majeure that reduces the capability of existing or planned transmission facilities and such 
reduction in capability is the cause of the infeasibility of such Financial Transmission Rights.  
Extraordinary circumstances do not include those system conditions and assumptions modeled in 
simultaneous feasibility analyses conducted pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 7.5 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement.  If PJM allocates Financial Transmission Rights as 
a result of this subsection (ii) that would not otherwise have been feasible, then PJM shall notify 
Members and post on its web site (a) the aggregate megawatt quantities, by sources and sinks, of 
such Financial Transmission Rights and (b) any increases in capability limits used to allocate 
such Financial Transmission Rights. 
 
  (iii) In the event that Network Load changes from one Network Service User 
to another after an initial or annual allocation of Financial Transmission Rights in a new zone, 
Financial Transmission Rights will be reassigned on a proportional basis from the Network 
Service User losing the load to the Network Service User that is gaining the Network Load. 
 
 (g) At least one month prior to the integration of a new zone into the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market, Network Service Users and Firm Transmission Customers that take 
service that sinks in, sources in, or is transmitted through the new zone, shall receive an initial 
allocation of Financial Transmission Rights that will be in effect from the date of the integration 
of the new zone until the next annual allocation of Financial Transmission Rights and Auction 
Revenue Rights.  Such allocation of Financial Transmission Rights shall be made in accordance 
with Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.2(f) of this Schedule. 
 
 (h) Reserved. 
   
5.2.3 Target Allocation of Transmission Congestion Credits.   
 
A Target Allocation of Transmission Congestion Credits for each FTR Holder shall be 
determined for each Financial Transmission Right.  Each Financial Transmission Right shall be 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.2 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 6/30/2024 - Docket #: ER24-374-002 - Page 6 
multiplied by the Day-ahead Congestion Price differences for the receipt and delivery points 
associated with the Financial Transmission Right, calculated as the Day-ahead Congestion Price 
at the delivery point(s) minus the Day-ahead Congestion Price at the receipt point(s).  For the 
purposes of calculating Transmission Congestion Credits, the Day-ahead Congestion Price of a 
Zone is calculated as the sum of the Day-ahead Congestion Price of each bus that comprises the 
Zone multiplied by the percent of annual peak load assigned to each node in the Zone.   
Commencing with the 2015/2016 Planning Period, for the purposes of calculating Transmission 
Congestion Credits, the Day-ahead Congestion Price of a Residual Metered Load aggregate is 
calculated as the sum of the Day-ahead Congestion Price of each bus that comprises the Residual 
Metered Load aggregate multiplied by the percent of the annual peak residual load assigned to 
each bus that comprises the Residual Metered Load aggregate.  When the FTR Target Allocation 
is positive, the FTR Target Allocation is a credit to the FTR Holder.  When the FTR Target 
Allocation is negative, the FTR Target Allocation is a debit to the FTR Holder if the FTR is a 
Financial Transmission Right Obligation.  When the FTR Target Allocation is negative, the FTR 
Target Allocation is set to zero if the FTR is a Financial Transmission Right Option.  The total 
Target Allocation for Network Service Users and Transmission Customers for each hour shall be 
the sum of the Target Allocations associated with all of the Network Service Users’ or 
Transmission Customers’ Financial Transmission Rights. 
 
During a Market Suspension where there are no Day-ahead Prices available for the affected 
Operating Day, the aforementioned Day-ahead Congestion Price will be substituted with the 
hourly integrated Real-time Congestion Price as determined in Operating Agreement, Schedule 
1, section 2.5. 
 
For a Market Suspension where the suspension is greater than twenty-four (24) consecutive 
hours, which may span up to two Operating Days, and there are no Day-ahead Prices available 
for the affected Operating Day, the Day-ahead Financial Transmission Right Target Allocation 
values would be equal to zero for the hours corresponding to this suspension interval. 
 
5.2.4 [Reserved.] 
 
5.2.5 Calculation of Transmission Congestion Credits. 
 
 (a) The total of all the positive Target Allocations determined as specified above shall 
be compared to the Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges in each hour.  
If the total of the Target Allocations is less than or equal to the total of the Day-ahead Energy 
Market Transmission Congestion Charges, the Transmission Congestion Credit for each entity 
holding an FTR shall be equal to its Target Allocation.  All remaining Day-ahead Energy Market 
Transmission Congestion Charges shall be distributed as described below in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.6 “Distribution of Excess Congestion Charges.” 
 
 (b) If the total of the Target Allocations is greater than the Day-ahead Energy Market  
Transmission Congestion Charges for the hour, each FTR Holder shall be assigned a share of the 
Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges in proportion to its Target 
Allocations for Financial Transmission Rights which have a positive Target Allocation value.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.2 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 6/30/2024 - Docket #: ER24-374-002 - Page 7 
Financial Transmission Rights which have a negative Target Allocation value are assigned the 
full Target Allocation value as a negative Transmission Congestion Credit.   
 
 (c) At the end of a Planning Period if all FTR Holders did not receive Transmission 
Congestion Credits equal to their Target Allocations, the Office of the Interconnection shall 
assess a charge equal to the difference between the Transmission Congestion Credit Target 
Allocations for all revenue deficient FTRs and the actual Transmission Congestion Credits 
allocated to those FTR Holders.  A charge assessed pursuant to this section shall also include any 
aggregate charge assessed pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.4(c) and 
shall be allocated to all FTR Holders on a pro-rata basis according to the total Target Allocations 
for all FTRs held at any time during the relevant Planning Period.  The charge shall be calculated 
and allocated in accordance with the following methodology: 
 
  1. The Office of the Interconnection shall calculate the total amount of uplift 
required as {[sum of the total monthly deficiencies in FTR Target Allocations for the Planning 
Period + the sum of the ARR Target Allocation deficiencies determined pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.4(c)] – [sum of the total monthly excess ARR revenues and 
excess Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges for the Planning Period]}. 
 
  2. For each Market Participant that held an FTR during the Planning Period, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall calculate the total Target Allocation associated with all FTRs 
held by the Market Participant during the Planning Period, provided that, the foregoing 
notwithstanding, if the total Target Allocation for an individual Market Participant calculated 
pursuant to this section is negative the Office of Interconnection shall set the value to zero. 
 
  3. The Office of the Interconnection shall then allocate an uplift charge to each 
Market Participant that held an FTR at any time during the Planning Period in accordance with 
the following formula:  {[total uplift] * [total Target Allocation for all FTRs held by the Market 
Participant at any time during the Planning Period] / [total Target Allocations for all FTRs held 
by all PJM Market Participants at any time during the Planning Period]}. 
 
5.2.6 Distribution of Excess Congestion Charges. 
 
 (a) Excess Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges accumulated 
in a month shall be distributed to each FTR Holder in proportion to, but not more than, any 
deficiency in the share of Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges received 
by the FTR Holder during that month as compared to its total Target Allocations for the month. 
 
 (b) After the excess Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charge 
distribution described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.6(a) is performed, any 
excess Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges remaining at the end of a 
month shall be distributed to each FTR Holder in proportion to, but not more than, any 
deficiency in the share of Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges received 
by the FTR Holder during the current Planning Period, including previously distributed excess 
Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges, as compared to its total Target 
Allocation for the Planning Period. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.2 Transmission Congestion 
Effective Date: 6/30/2024 - Docket #: ER24-374-002 - Page 8 
 
 (c) Any excess Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges 
remaining at the end of a Planning Period shall be distributed to each holder of Auction Revenue 
Rights in proportion to, but not more than, any Auction Revenue Right deficiencies for that 
Planning Period.   
 
  (d) Any excess Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges 
remaining after a distribution pursuant to subsection (c) of this section shall be distributed to all 
ARR holders on a pro-rata basis according to the total Target Allocations for all ARRs held at 
any time during the relevant Planning Period.  Any allocation pursuant to this subsection (d) 
shall be conducted in accordance with the following methodology: 
 
  1. For each Market Participant that held an ARR during the Planning Period, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall calculate the total Target Allocation associated with all ARRs 
held by the Market Participant during the Planning Period, provided that, the foregoing 
notwithstanding, if the total Target Allocation for an individual Market Participant calculated 
pursuant to this section is negative the Office of the Interconnection shall set the value to zero. 
 
  2. The Office of the Interconnection shall then allocate an excess Day-ahead 
Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charge credit to each Market Participant that held an 
ARR at any time during the Planning Period in accordance with the following formula:  {[total 
excess Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges remaining after 
distributions pursuant to subsection (a)-(c) of this section] * [total Target Allocation for all ARRs 
held by the Market Participant at any time during the Planning Period] / [total Target Allocations 
for all ARRs held by all PJM Market Participants at any time during the Planning Period]}. 
 
5.2.7 Allocation of Balancing Congestion Charges 
 
At the end of each hour during an Operating Day, the Office of the Interconnection shall allocate 
the Balancing Congestion Charges to real-time load and exports on a pro-rata basis.  Such 
allocation shall not include purchases of Direct Charging Energy. 
 
During a Market Suspension where the suspension has no Day-ahead Prices or if the suspension 
is less than or equal to twenty-four (24) hours, which may span up to two Operating Days, and 
there are no Day-ahead Prices available for the affected Operating Day, for each hour 
corresponding to this suspension interval, the Office of the Interconnection shall allocate the 
Balancing Congestion Charges to Financial Transmission Right Target Allocation values before 
being allocated to real-time load and exports on a pro-rata basis. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.3 Unscheduled Transm 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 1 
5.3 Unscheduled Transmission Service (Loop Flow). 
 
 (a) When there are agreements between the Office of the Interconnection and others 
for compensation to be paid or received for unscheduled transmission service (loop flow) into or 
out of the PJM Region, the net compensation received shall be included in the Balancing 
Congestion Charges that are distributed in accordance with Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 5.2. 
 
  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.4 Transmission Loss Charge 
Effective Date: 4/1/2018 - Docket #: ER17-775-003 - Page 1 
5.4 Transmission Loss Charge Calculation. 
 
5.4.1 Calculation by Office of the Interconnection. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall calculate Transmission Loss Charges for each Network 
Service User, Market Participant in the PJM Interchange Energy Market, and each Transmission 
Customer. 
 
5.4.2 General. 
 
 (a) The basis for the Transmission Loss Charges shall be the differences in the 
Locational Marginal Prices, defined as the Loss Price at a bus, between points of delivery and 
points of receipt, as determined in accordance with Section 2 of this Schedule.  
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall calculate Loss Prices in the form of Day-ahead 
Loss Prices and Real-time Loss Prices for the PJM Region, in accordance with Section 2 of this 
Schedule. 
 
(c) If a dollar-per-MW-hour value is applied in a calculation under this section 5.4 where the 
interval of the value produced in that calculation is less than an hour, then for purposes of that 
calculation the dollar-per-MW hour value is divided by the number of Real-time Settlement 
Intervals in the hour. 
 
5.4.3 Network Service User and Market Participant Calculations. 
 
 (a) Each Network Service User shall be charged for the increased cost of 
transmission losses to deliver the output of its firm Capacity Resources or other owned or 
contracted for resources, its firm bilateral purchases, and its non-firm bilateral purchases.   
 
 (b) For each Day-ahead Settlement Interval, Market Participants shall be charged for 
transmission losses resulting from all Market Participant Energy Withdrawals scheduled  in the 
Day-ahead Energy Market at the Day-ahead Loss Price applicable to each relevant location at 
which both the Market Participant withdraws energy and such energy is priced. 
 
 (c) For each Day-ahead Settlement Interval, Market Participants shall be reimbursed 
for transmission losses resulting from all Market Participant Energy Injections scheduled in the 
Day-ahead Energy Market at the Day-ahead Loss Price applicable to each relevant location at 
which both the Market Participant injects energy and such energy is priced. 
 
 (d) The day-ahead component of a Market Participant’s Transmission Loss Charge is 
equal to the difference between the total day-ahead transmission loss withdrawal charge 
calculated in paragraph (b) and the total day-ahead transmission loss injection credit calculated 
in paragraph (c).  
 
 (e) (i) The amount of energy delivered at each generation bus is determined by 
revenue meter data, if available, or by the State Estimator, if revenue meter data is not available.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.4 Transmission Loss Charge 
Effective Date: 4/1/2018 - Docket #: ER17-775-003 - Page 2 
The total load actually served at each load bus is initially determined by the State Estimator.  For 
each Electric Distributor that reports hourly net energy flows from metered Tie Lines and for 
which all generators within the Electric Distributor’s territory report revenue quality, hourly net 
energy delivered, the total revenue meter load within the Electric Distributor’s territory is 
calculated as the sum of all net import energy flows reported by their tie revenue meters and all 
net generation reported via generator revenue meters.  The amount of load at each of such 
Electric Distributor’s load buses calculated by the State Estimator is then adjusted, in proportion 
to its share of the total load of that Electric Distributor, in order that the total amount of load 
across all of the Electric Distributor’s load buses matches its total revenue meter calculated load. 
 
(ii) To determine the amount of load served by each LSE in an Electric Distributor’s 
territory, PJMSettlement utilizes the information submitted into PJM’s internal energy 
scheduling tool by LSEs and Electric Distributors for their respective load contracts, including 
the names of the LSE responsible for serving the load and the Electric Distributor in whose 
territory the load is located, the number of megawatts of load assigned to the LSE for each hour, 
the Energy Settlement Area at which load is to be priced, and the start and end dates for the load 
contract.  During the settlements process, load assigned to an LSE at a specified Energy 
Settlement Area is further assigned to individual load buses included in the Energy Settlement 
Area, based on the definition for the Energy Settlement Area as defined in Section 31.7 of the 
PJM Tariff, which specifies the percentage of the Energy Settlement Area that each bus 
represents, to identify the LSE’s hourly megawatts of load at each bus.  All megawatts of load 
assigned to LSEs in an Electric Distributor’s territory as described herein are subtracted from the 
total megawatts of load for which the Electric Distributor is responsible as determined in 
subsection (e)(i) above. 
 
(iii) Electric Distributors that hold POLR auctions or similar load auctions may direct 
PJM to automatically assign megawatt hours for which the Electric Distributor is responsible, as 
determined in subsection (e)(ii) above, to the POLR Suppliers based on the tranches the POLR 
Suppliers won in the auction, as a billing service, based on their contracts associated with the 
POLR load programs. In such case, the POLR Supplier’s share of load shall be determined by 
multiplying the megawatt hours at each bus that were not specifically assigned under load 
contracts by the percentage of load won by the POLR Supplier in proportion to its share of the 
total POLR load of the Electric Distributor.   This billing service may also apply to Electric 
Distributors and LSEs that mutually agree upon a transfer of load from the EDC to the LSE 
based upon a specified percentage of the megawatt hours at each bus that were not specifically 
assigned under load contracts. 
 
 (f) For each real-time Settlement Interval, Market Participants shall be assessed for 
transmission losses charges (positive or negative) in accordance with the following equation: 
 
 [(A – B) * C] – [(D – E) * C]  
 
Where:  
A = The Market Participant Energy Withdrawal megawatts in real-time at the location at 
which both the Market Participant withdraws energy and such energy is priced;  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.4 Transmission Loss Charge 
Effective Date: 4/1/2018 - Docket #: ER17-775-003 - Page 3 
B = The Market Participant Energy Withdrawal megawatts in day-ahead at the location at 
which both the Market Participant withdraws energy and such energy is priced; 
 
 C = Real-time Loss Price; 
 
D = The Market Participant Energy Injection megawatts in real-time at the location at 
which both the Market Participant injects energy and such energy is priced; and  
 
E = The Market Participant Energy Injection megawatts in day-ahead at the location at 
which both the Market Participant injects energy and such energy is priced. 
 
 
(g) The Revenue Data for Settlements determined for each Real-time Settlement Interval in 
accordance with section 3.1A of this Schedule shall be used in determining the real-time Market 
Participant Energy Withdrawals and Market Participant Energy Injections used to calculate 
transmission losses charges under subsection (f).  
 
5.4.4 Transmission Customer Calculation. 
 
Each Transmission Customer using Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service (as defined in the 
PJM Tariff), each Network Customer, and each Transmission Customer using Non-Firm Point-
to-Point Transmission Service (as defined in the PJM Tariff), shall be charged for the increased 
cost of transmission losses for the delivery of energy using such Transmission Service.   
 
(a) For each Day-ahead Settlement Interval, Transmission Loss Charges shall be assessed for 
transmission use scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy Market, calculated as the scheduled 
amount to be delivered multiplied by the difference between the Day-ahead Loss Price at 
the delivery point or the delivery interface at the boundary of the PJM Region and the 
Day-ahead Loss Price at the source point or the source interface at the boundary of the 
PJM Region.   
 
(b) For each Real-time Settlement Interval, Transmission Loss Charges shall be assessed for 
real-time transmission use in excess of the amounts scheduled for the applicable interval 
in the Day-ahead Energy Market, calculated as the excess amount multiplied by the 
difference between the Real-time Loss Price at the delivery point or the delivery interface 
at the boundary of the PJM Region, and the Real-time Loss Price at the source point or 
the source interface at the boundary of the PJM Region.  For each Real-time Settlement 
Interval, a Transmission Customer shall be paid for Transmission Loss Charges for real-
time transmission use falling below the amounts scheduled for the applicable interval in 
the Day-ahead Energy Market, calculated as the shortfall amount multiplied by the 
difference between the Real-time Loss Price at the delivery point or the delivery interface 
at the boundary of the PJM Region, and the Real-time Loss Price at the source point or 
the source interface at the boundary of the PJM Region or the source Interface Pricing 
Point at the boundary of the PJM Region.   
 
5.4.4A Transaction Calculation. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.4 Transmission Loss Charge 
Effective Date: 4/1/2018 - Docket #: ER17-775-003 - Page 4 
 
Each Market Participant entering into transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market shall 
be charged for the increased cost of transmission losses on the scheduled path for the applicable 
interval. 
 
(a) For each Day-ahead Settlement Interval, Transmission Loss Charges shall be assessed for 
the transaction MWh scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy Market, calculated as the 
scheduled amount to be delivered multiplied by the difference between the Day-ahead 
Loss Price at the sink point and the Day-ahead Loss Price at the source point.  
 
(b)  For each Real-time Settlement Interval, Transmission Loss Charges shall be assessed for 
real-time MWh in excess of the amounts scheduled for the applicable interval in the Day-
ahead Energy Market, calculated as the excess amount multiplied by the difference 
between the Real-time Loss Price at the sink point and the real-time Loss Price at the 
source point.  Such Market Participant shall be paid for Transmission Loss Charges for 
real-time MWh falling below the amounts scheduled for the applicable interval in the 
Day-ahead Energy Market, calculated as the shortfall amount multiplied by the difference 
between the Real-time Loss Price at the sink point and the Real-time Loss Price at the 
source point.  The Revenue Data for Settlements determined for each Real-time 
Settlement Interval in accordance with section 3.1A of this Schedule shall be used in 
determining the real-time transactions used to calculate Transmission Loss Charges under 
this subsection (b).     
 
 
5.4.5 Total Transmission Loss Charges. 
 
The total Transmission Loss Charges collected by PJMSettlement each hour will be the 
aggregate net amounts determined as specified in this Schedule and in accordance with the PJM 
Manuals. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.5 Distribution of Total 
Effective Date: 12/3/2019 - Docket #: ER19-469-002 - Page 1 
5.5 Distribution of Total Transmission Loss Charges. 
 
The total Transmission Loss Charges accumulated by PJMSettlement in any hour shall be 
distributed pro-rata to each Network Service User and Transmission Customer in proportion to 
its ratio shares of the total MWhs of energy delivered to load ((a) net of operating Behind The 
Meter Generation, but not to be less than zero; and (b) excluding Direct Charging Energy) in the 
PJM Region, or the total exports of MWh of energy from the PJM Region (that paid for 
transmission service during such hour). Exports of energy for which Non-Firm Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service was utilized and for which the Non-Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service rate 
was paid will receive an allocation of the total Transmission Loss Charges based on a percentage of the 
MWh of energy exported on such service, determined by the ratio of Non-Firm Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service rate to Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service rate. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.6 Transmission Constraint 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 1 
5.6 Transmission Constraint Penalty Factors 
 
5.6.1 Application of Transmission Constraint Penalty Factors in the Day-ahead and Real-
time Energy Markets 
 
In the Day-ahead Energy Market, the Transmission Constraint Penalty Factors shall be used to 
ensure a feasible market clearing solution but not used to determine the Marginal Value of a 
transmission constraint.  In the Real-time Energy Market, the Office of the Interconnection shall 
use Transmission Constraint Penalty Factors to determine the Marginal Value for a transmission 
constraint when that transmission constraint cannot be managed within the binding transmission 
limit in a dispatch interval.  If a Market Suspension greater than twenty-four (24) consecutive 
hours is declared in the Real-time Energy Market as per Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 2.5.2, Transmission Constraint Penalty Factors shall not be used to determine the 
Marginal Value of a transmission constraint.  The Marginal Value of the transmission constraint 
shall be used in the determination of the Congestion Price component of Locational Marginal 
Price as referenced in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2.5 through Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 2.6, and the parallel provisions of Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
2.5 through Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2.6.  The Transmission Constraint Penalty 
Factor may set the Marginal Value of the transmission constraint during any dispatch interval in 
the Real-time Energy Market depending on the following: 
 
(a) If the market clearing software that clears the Real-time Energy Market cannot 
produce a solution that manages the flow on a constraint within the binding limit in a dispatch 
interval at a cost less than or equal to the Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor, the 
Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor shall set the Marginal Value of the transmission 
constraint.  In such instances, to manage the flow over the constraint, the Office of the 
Interconnection may adjust the Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor as set forth in Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.6.3 and the parallel provisions of Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 5.6.3. 
 
(b) If the Real-time Energy Market constraints are subject to market-to-market 
congestion management protocols with an adjacent Regional Transmission Organization and the 
market clearing software cannot produce a solution that manages the flow on a constraint within 
the binding limit in a dispatch interval, the Office of the Interconnection may coordinate with 
such Regional Transmission Organization to either allow the Transmission Constraint Penalty 
Factor to set the Marginal Value of the transmission constraint or to apply the Constraint 
Relaxation Logic upon mutual agreement in accordance with applicable Joint Operating 
Agreements. 
 
5.6.2 Default Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor Values 
 
Transmission constraints located within the metered boundaries of the PJM Region, including 
market-to-market coordinated constraints, regardless of voltage level, are defaulted to a 
$30,000/MWh Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor in the Day-ahead Energy Market when 
determining the day-ahead security constrained economic dispatch, known as the dispatch run, 
and $2,000/MWh in the determination of Day-ahead Prices in the pricing run.  Constraints 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.6 Transmission Constraint 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 2 
located within the metered boundaries of the PJM Region, excluding market-to-market 
coordinated constraints, regardless of voltage level, are defaulted to a $2,000/MWh Transmission 
Constraint Penalty Factor in the Real-time Energy Market.  Market-to-market coordinated 
constraints in the Real-time Energy Market, located within the metered boundaries of the PJM 
Region, will use a default Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor of $1,000/MWh or a value 
agreed upon by PJM and the relevant Regional Transmission Organization in accordance with 
applicable Joint Operating Agreements. 
 
5.6.3 Modifications to Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor Values 
 
(a) The Office of the Interconnection may modify the default Transmission 
Constraint Penalty Factor values used in the Real-time Energy Market or Day-ahead Energy 
Market for individual transmission constraints to: (1) ensure the market clearing solution is 
feasible, (2) reflect changes to the operating practices which are mutually agreed upon with the 
neighboring RTO for managing such constraints for market-to-market coordinated constraints, or 
(3) reflect persistent system operational or reliability needs and the cost of the resources 
available to effectively relieve congestion on the constraint.  When such conditions occur, the 
Office of the Interconnection may raise the Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor when 
sufficient congestion relief on the constraint cannot be provided by available resources at a cost 
below the default Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor.  The Office of the Interconnection 
may lower the Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor when sufficient congestion relief on the 
constraint can be provided by available resources at a cost below the default Transmission 
Constraint Penalty Factor in order to prevent a high cost resource that cannot provide material 
congestion relief on the constraint from inappropriately setting price for the constraint or when 
congestion relief on the constraint can be provided by available resources at a cost below the 
default Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor but resources are not available for congestion 
relief between the marginal value of the appreciable resource and the default Transmission 
Constraint Penalty Factor if the congestion results from a transmission outage needed to address 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan criteria or interconnection requests in the impacted area 
designed to improve system reliability.  In either instance, to effectively relieve congestion on 
the constraint, the revised Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor value may be determined 
using the following formula, while accounting for the ability for such inputs to vary as system 
conditions change throughout the operating day: 
 
System Energy Price + Loss Price + Congestion Price 
(all binding constraints) – Incremental Energy Offer* Revised Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor ($/MW) = Dfax 
 
Where Dfax equals the distribution factor of the resource for the transmission constraint 
 
*For purposes of this equation only, Incremental Energy Offer includes start up and no load costs 
where appropriate. 
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall post, as soon as practicable, on its website 
any changes to the default Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor values used in the Real-time 
Energy Market and/or the Day-ahead Energy Market.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 5.- CALCULATION OF 
CHARGE --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 5.6 Transmission Constraint 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 3 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 6 - “MUST-RUN” FOR 
RELIAB 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER23-557-000 - Page 1 
6. “MUST-RUN” FOR RELIABILITY GENERATION 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 6 - “MUST-RUN” FOR 