Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4.3. 
 
Authorized Government Agency: 
 
“Authorized Government Agency” means a regulatory body or government agency, with 
jurisdiction over PJM, the PJM Market, or any entity doing business in the PJM Market, including, 
but not limited to, the Commission, State Commissions, and state and federal attorneys general. 
 
Avoidable Cost Rate: 
 
“Avoidable Cost Rate” shall mean a component of the Market Seller Offer Cap calculated in 
accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6. 
 
Balancing Congestion Charges: 
 
“Balancing Congestion Charges” shall be equal to the sum of congestion charges collected from 
Market Participants that are purchasing energy in the Real-time Energy Market minus [the sum 
of congestion charges paid to Market Participants that are selling energy in the Real-time Energy 
Market plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to the Joint Operating Agreement 
between the Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. and PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 38), plus any congestion charges 
calculated pursuant to the Joint Operating Agreement Among and Between New York 
Independent System Operator Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC 
No. 45), plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to agreements between the Office of 
the Interconnection and other entities, plus any charges or credits calculated pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.8, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 3.8, as applicable)]. 
 
Balancing Ratio: 
 
“Balancing Ratio” shall have the meaning provided in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 10A. 
 
Base Capacity Demand Resource:  
 
“Base Capacity Demand Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Base Capacity Demand Resource Constraint: 
 
“Base Capacity Demand Resource Constraint” for the PJM Region or an LDA, shall mean, for 
the 2018/2019 and 2019/2020 Delivery Years, the maximum Unforced Capacity amount, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 6 
determined by PJM, of Base Capacity Demand Resources and Base Capacity Energy Efficiency 
Resources that is consistent with the maintenance of reliability.  As more fully set forth in the 
PJM Manuals, PJM calculates the Base Capacity Demand Resource Constraint for the PJM 
Region or an LDA, by first determining a reference annual loss of load expectation (“LOLE”) 
assuming no Base Capacity Resources, including no Base Capacity Demand Resources or Base 
Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources.  The calculation for the PJM Region uses a daily 
distribution of loads under a range of weather scenarios (based on the most recent load forecast 
and iteratively shifting the load distributions to result in the Installed Reserve Margin established 
for the Delivery Year in question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative 
capacity availability distributions developed for the Installed Reserve Margin study for the 
Delivery Year in question).  The calculation for each relevant LDA uses a daily distribution of 
loads under a range of weather scenarios (based on the most recent load forecast for the Delivery 
Year in question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative capacity 
availability distributions developed for the Installed Reserve Margin study for the Delivery Year 
in question).  For the relevant LDA calculation, the weekly capacity distributions are adjusted to 
reflect the Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit for the Delivery Year in question. 
 
For both the PJM Region and LDA analyses, PJM then models the commitment of varying 
amounts of Base Capacity Demand Resources and Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources 
(displacing otherwise committed generation) as interruptible from June 1 through September 30 
and unavailable the rest of the Delivery Year in question and calculates the LOLE at each DR 
and EE level.  The Base Capacity Demand Resource Constraint is the combined amount of Base 
Capacity Demand Resources and Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources, stated as a 
percentage of the unrestricted annual peak load, that produces no more than a five percent 
increase in the LOLE, compared to the reference value.  The Base Capacity Demand Resource 
Constraint shall be expressed as a percentage of the forecasted peak load of the PJM Region or 
such LDA and is converted to Unforced Capacity by multiplying [the reliability target 
percentage] times [the Forecast Pool Requirement] times [the forecasted peak load of the PJM 
Region or such LDA, reduced by the amount of load served under the FRR Alternative]. 
 
Base Capacity Demand Resource Price Decrement: 
 
“Base Capacity Demand Resource Price Decrement” shall mean, for the 2018/2019 and 
2019/2020 Delivery Years, a difference between the clearing price for Base Capacity Demand 
Resources and Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources and the clearing price for Base 
Capacity Resources and Capacity Performance Resources, representing the cost to procure 
additional Base Capacity Resources or Capacity Performance Resources out of merit order when 
the Base Capacity Demand Resource Constraint is binding. 
 
Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resource: 
 
“Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Base Capacity Resource:  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 7 
“Base Capacity Resource” shall mean a Capacity Resource as described in Tariff, Attachment 
DD, section 5.5A(b). 
 
Base Capacity Resource Constraint: 
 
“Base Capacity Resource Constraint” for the PJM Region or an LDA, shall mean, for the 
2018/2019 and 2019/2020 Delivery Years, the maximum Unforced Capacity amount, determined 
by PJM, of Base Capacity Resources, including Base Capacity Demand Resources and Base 
Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources, that is consistent with the maintenance of reliability.  As 
more fully set forth in the PJM Manuals, PJM calculates the above Base Capacity Resource 
Constraint for the PJM Region or an LDA, by first determining a reference annual loss of load 
expectation (“LOLE”) assuming no Base Capacity Resources, including no Base Capacity 
Demand Resources or Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources.  The calculation for the PJM 
Region uses the weekly load distribution from the Installed Reserve Margin study for the 
Delivery Year in question (based on the most recent load forecast and iteratively shifting the load 
distributions to result in the Installed Reserve Margin established for the Delivery Year in 
question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative capacity availability 
distributions developed for the Installed Reserve Margin study for the Delivery Year in 
question).  The calculation for each relevant LDA uses a weekly load distribution (based on the 
Installed Reserve Margin study and the most recent load forecast for the Delivery Year in 
question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative capacity availability 
distributions developed for the Installed Reserve Margin study for the Delivery Year in 
question).  For the relevant LDA calculation, the weekly capacity distributions are adjusted to 
reflect the Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit for the Delivery Year in question.  Additionally, 
for the PJM Region and relevant LDA calculation, the weekly capacity distributions are adjusted 
to reflect winter ratings. 
 
For both the PJM Region and LDA analyses, PJM models the commitment of an amount of Base 
Capacity Demand Resources and Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources equal to the Base 
Capacity Demand Resource Constraint (displacing otherwise committed generation).  PJM then 
models the commitment of varying amounts of Base Capacity Resources (displacing otherwise 
committed generation) as unavailable during the peak week of winter and available the rest of 
the Delivery Year in question and calculates the LOLE at each Base Capacity Resource level.  
The Base Capacity Resource Constraint is the combined amount of Base Capacity Demand 
Resources, Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources and Base Capacity Resources, stated as a 
percentage of the unrestricted annual peak load, that produces no more than a ten percent 
increase in the LOLE, compared to the reference value.  The Base Capacity Resource Constraint 
shall be expressed as a percentage of the forecasted peak load of the PJM Region or such LDA 
and is converted to Unforced Capacity by multiplying [the reliability target percentage] times 
[one minus the pool-wide average EFORd] times [the forecasted peak load of the PJM Region or 
such LDA, reduced by the amount of load served under the FRR Alternative]. 
 
Base Capacity Resource Price Decrement: 
 
“Base Capacity Resource Price Decrement” shall mean, for the 2018/2019 and 2019/2020 
Delivery Years, a difference between the clearing price for Base Capacity Resources and the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 8 
clearing price for Capacity Performance Resources, representing the cost to procure additional 
Capacity Performance Resources out of merit order when the Base Capacity Resource Constraint 
is binding. 
 
Base Load Generation Resource 
 
“Base Load Generation Resource” shall mean a Generation Capacity Resource that operates at 
least 90 percent of the hours that it is available to operate, as determined by the Office of the 
Interconnection in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
Base Offer Segment: 
 
“Base Offer Segment” shall mean a component of a Sell Offer based on an existing Generation 
Capacity Resource, equal to the Unforced Capacity of such resource, as determined in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals.  If the Sell Offers of multiple Market Sellers are based on a 
single Existing Generation Capacity Resource, the Base Offer Segments of such Market Sellers 
shall be determined pro rata based on their entitlements to Unforced Capacity from such 
resource. 
 
Base Residual Auction:  
 
“Base Residual Auction” shall mean the auction conducted three years prior to the start of the 
Delivery Year to secure commitments from Capacity Resources as necessary to satisfy any 
portion of the Unforced Capacity Obligation of the PJM Region not satisfied through Self-
Supply. 
 
Batch Load Economic Load Response Participant Resource: 
 
“Batch Load Economic Load Response Participant Resource” shall mean an Economic Load 
Response Participant Resource that has a cyclical production process such that at most times 
during the process it is consuming energy, but at consistent regular intervals, ordinarily for 
periods of less than ten minutes, it reduces its consumption of energy for its production processes 
to minimal or zero megawatts. 
 
Behind The Meter Generation: 
 
“Behind The Meter Generation” shall refer to a generation unit that delivers energy to load 
without using the Transmission System or any distribution facilities (unless the entity that owns 
or leases the distribution facilities has consented to such use of the distribution facilities and such 
consent has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Office of the Interconnection); provided, 
however, that Behind The Meter Generation does not include (i) at any time, any portion of such 
generating unit’s capacity that is designated as a Generation Capacity Resource; or (ii) in an 
hour, any portion of the output of such generating unit that is sold to another entity for 
consumption at another electrical location or into the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Black Start Service: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 9 
 
“Black Start Service” shall mean the capability of generating units to start without an outside 
electrical supply or the demonstrated ability of a generating unit with a high operating factor 
(subject to Transmission Provider concurrence) to automatically remain operating at reduced 
levels when disconnected from the grid. 
 
Border Yearly Charge: 
 
“Border Yearly Charge” shall mean the yearly charge determined in accordance with Tariff, 
