[ATTACHMENT GG - Part 2 of 3]

Owner of its election to exercise the Option to Build, New Service Customer shall solicit bids 
from one or more Approved Contractors named on the Transmission Owner’s List of Approved 
Contractors to procure equipment for, and/or to design, construct and/or install, the Direct 
Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded Upgrades that the New Service Customer seeks to 
build under the Option to Build on terms (i) that will meet the New Service Customer’s proposed 
schedule; (ii) that, if the New Service Customer seeks to have an Approved Contractor construct 
or install Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded Upgrades that are Direct Connection 
Network Upgrades, will satisfy all of the conditions on construction specified in Sections 6.2.2 
and 6.2.3 of this Appendix III; and (iii) that will satisfy the obligations of a Constructing Entity 
(other than those relating to responsibility for the costs of facilities) under this Upgrade CSA.   
 
(b) Any additional costs arising from the bidding process or from the final bid of the 
successful Approved Contractor shall be the sole responsibility of the New Service Customer.   
 
(c) Upon receipt of a qualifying bid acceptable to it, the New Service Customer shall 
contract with the Approved Contractor that submitted the qualifying bid.  Such contract shall 
meet the standards stated in paragraph (a) of this section. 
 
(d) In the absence of a qualifying bid acceptable to the New Service Customer in 
response to its solicitation, the Transmission Owner(s) shall be responsible for the design, 
procurement, construction and installation of the Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-
Funded Upgrades in accordance with the Standard Option described in Section 6.2.1 of this 
Appendix III. 
 
 6.2.8 New Service Customer Drawings.   
 
New Service Customer shall submit to the Interconnected Transmission Owner and 
Transmission Provider initial drawings, certified by a professional engineer, of the Direct 
Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded Upgrades that New Service Customer arranges to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.6.0 Schedule Of Work 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 7 
build under the Option to Build. The Interconnected Transmission Owner and Transmission 
Provider shall review the drawings to assess the consistency of New Service Customer’s design 
of the pertinent Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded Upgrades with Applicable 
Standards and the Facilities Study. After consulting with the Interconnected Transmission 
Owner, Transmission Provider shall provide comments on such drawings to New Service 
Customer within sixty days after its receipt thereof, after which time any drawings not subject to 
comment shall be deemed to be approved.  All drawings provided hereunder shall be deemed to 
be Confidential Information. 
 
 6.2.9 Effect of Review.   
 
Interconnected Transmission Owner's and Transmission Provider’s reviews of New Service 
Customer's initial drawings of the Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded 
Upgrades that the New Service Customer is building shall not be construed as confirming, 
endorsing or providing a warranty as to the fitness, safety, durability or reliability of such 
facilities or the design thereof.  At its sole cost and expense, New Service Customer shall make 
such changes to the design of the pertinent Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded 
Upgrades as may reasonably be required by Transmission Provider, in consultation with the 
Transmission Owner, to ensure that the Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded 
Upgrades that New Service Customer is building meet Applicable Standards and conform with 
the Facilities Study. 
 
6.3 Revisions to Schedule and Scope of Work.   
 
The Schedule and Scope of Work shall be revised as required in accordance with Transmission 
Provider’s scope change process for projects set forth in the PJM Manuals, or otherwise by 
mutual agreement of the Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner, which agreement shall 
not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. 
 
6.4 Suspension.   
 
The following provision applies to New Service Requests which have entered the New Services 
Queue prior to February 1, 2011:  
 
New Service Customer shall have the right, upon written notice to Transmission Provider and 
Transmission Owner, to suspend at any time all work by the Transmission Owner associated 
with the construction and installation of the Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-
Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, required under this Upgrade 
CSA, with the condition that, notwithstanding such suspension, the Transmission System shall 
be left in a safe and reliable condition in accordance with Good Utility Practice and 
Transmission Provider’s safety and reliability criteria. This suspension right permits the New 
Service Customer to request one or more suspensions of work for a cumulative period of up to 
three years. New Service Customer’s notice of suspension shall include an estimated duration of 
the suspension and other information related to the suspension. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.6.0 Schedule Of Work 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 8 
The following provision applies to New Service Requests which have entered the New Services 
Queue on or after February 1, 2011:  
 
New Service Customer shall have the right, upon written notice to Transmission Provider and 
Transmission Owner, to suspend at any time all work by the Transmission Owner associated 
with the construction and installation of the Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-
Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, required under this Upgrade 
CSA, with the condition that, notwithstanding such suspension, the Transmission System shall 
be left in a safe and reliable condition in accordance with Good Utility Practice and 
Transmission Provider’s safety and reliability criteria. This suspension right permits the New 
Service Customer to request one or more suspensions of work for a cumulative period of up to (i) 
three years if the Transmission Provider determines that such suspension would not be deemed a 
Material Modification, or (ii) one year if the Transmission Provider determines that such 
suspension would be deemed a Material Modification.  New Service Customer’s notice of 
suspension shall include an estimated duration of the suspension and other information related to 
the suspension. 
 
 6.4.1 Costs.   
 
In the event of a suspension under this section, New Service Customer shall be responsible for 
all reasonable and necessary Cancellation Costs which the Transmission Owner or Transmission 
Provider:  (i) has incurred pursuant to this Upgrade CSA prior to the suspension; and (ii) incurs 
in suspending such work, including any costs incurred to perform such work as may be necessary 
to ensure the safety of persons and property and the integrity of the Transmission System during 
such suspension and, if applicable, any costs incurred in connection with the cancellation or 
suspension of material, equipment and/or labor contracts which Transmission Owner or 
Transmission Provider cannot reasonably avoid; provided, however, that prior to canceling or 
suspending any such material, equipment or labor contract, the Transmission Owner or 
Transmission Provider, as the case may be, shall obtain New Service Customer’s authorization to 
do so.  Upon the request of the New Service Customer, the Transmission Owner shall provide an 
estimate of the Cancellation Costs.  Transmission Provider shall invoice New Service Customer 
for Cancellation Costs for which the customer is liable under this section.  Transmission Owner 
and Transmission Provider shall use due diligence to minimize Cancellation Costs in the event of 
a suspension of work. 
 
 6.4.2 Duration of Suspension.   
 
If the Transmission Owner suspends work on the Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-
Funded Upgrades required under this Upgrade CSA pursuant to this Section 6.4.2, and the New 
Service Customer has not requested Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner to 
recommence the work required under the applicable agreement(s) on or before the expiration of 
the time period allowed under this Section 6.4 following commencement of such suspension, 
then this Upgrade CSA shall terminate.  The suspension time period shall begin on the date of 
the New Service Customer’s written notice of suspension to Transmission Provider and 
Transmission Owner. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.6.0 Schedule Of Work 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 9 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.7.0 Suspension of Work 
Upon  
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
7.0 Suspension of Work Upon Default. 
 
Upon the occurrence of a Default by New Service Customer, the Transmission Provider or the 
Transmission Owner may, by written notice to New Service Customer, suspend further work 
associated with the Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades, identified 
in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, Transmission Owner is responsible for constructing.  Such 
suspension shall not constitute a waiver of any termination rights under this Section 7.0.  In the 
event of a suspension by Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner, the New Service 
Customer shall be responsible for the Costs incurred in connection with any suspension 
hereunder. 
 
7.1 Notification and Correction of Defects 
 
 7.1.1 In the event that inspection and/or testing of any Direct Assignment Facilities or 
Customer-Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, built by 
Transmission Owner identifies any defects or failures to comply with Applicable Standards in 
such Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded Upgrades, then Transmission Owner 
shall take appropriate action to correct any such defects or failures within 20 days after it learns 
thereof.  If such a defect or failure cannot reasonably be corrected within such 20-day period, 
Transmission Owner shall commence the necessary correction within that time and shall 
thereafter diligently pursue it to completion.  Such acceptance does not modify and shall not 
limit the Interconnection Customer’s indemnification obligations set forth in Tariff, Attachment 
P, Appendix 2, section 3.2.3(e). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.8.0 Transmission 
Outages 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
8.0 Transmission Outages 
 
8.1 Outages; Coordination.   
 
The Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner acknowledge and agree that certain outages 
of transmission facilities owned by the Transmission Owner, as more specifically detailed in the 
Scope of Work, may be necessary in order to complete the process of constructing and installing 
the Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades identified in Appendix I to 
this Upgrade CSA.  The Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner further acknowledge 
and agree that any such outages shall be coordinated by and through Transmission Provider. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.9.0 Security, Billing 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
9.0 Security, Billing And Payments 
 
The following provisions shall apply with respect to charges for the Costs of the Transmission 
Owner for which the New Service Customer is responsible. 
 
9.1 Recurring Charges Pursuant to Section 26: 
 
The following provisions shall apply with respect to recurring charges applicable to a Merchant 
Network Upgrade pursuant to Section 26 of this Appendix III. 
 
 9.1.1 General: 
 
Except as, and to the extent, otherwise provided in this Upgrade CSA, billing and payment of 
any recurring charges applicable to the Merchant Network Upgrade pursuant to Section 26 of 
this Appendix III shall be in accordance with Section 7 of the Tariff.  Transmission Owner shall 
provide Transmission Provider with all necessary information and supporting data that 
Transmission Provider may reasonably require to administer billing for and payment of 
applicable charges under this Appendix III. Transmission Provider shall remit to Transmission 
Owner revenues received in payment of Transmission Owner’s charges to Interconnection 
Customer under this Appendix III upon Transmission Provider’s receipt of such revenues. At 
Transmission Provider’s reasonable discretion, charges to Interconnection Customer and 
remittances to Transmission Owner under this Appendix III may be netted against amounts owed 
by or to such parties under the Tariff. 
 
9.2 Adjustments to Security.   
 
The Security provided by New Service Customer at or before the Effective Date of this Upgrade 
CSA shall be:  (a) reduced as portions of the work on Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-
Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, are completed; and/or (b) 
increased or decreased as required to reflect adjustments to New Service Customer’s cost 
responsibility, to correspond with changes in the Scope of Work developed in accordance with 
Transmission Provider’s scope change process for projects set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
 
9.3 Invoice.   
 
Interconnected Transmission Owner shall provide Transmission Provider a quarterly statement 
of its scheduled expenditures during the next three months for, as applicable, (a) the design, 
engineering and construction of, and/or for other charges related to, construction of the Direct 
Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades identified in Appendix I to this 
Upgrade CSA, or (b) in the event that the New Service Customer exercises the Option to Build 
pursuant to Section 6.2.1 of this Appendix III, for the Interconnected Transmission Owner’s 
oversight costs (i.e. costs incurred by the Transmission Owner when engaging in oversight 
activities to satisfy itself that the New Service Customer is complying with the Transmission 
Owner’s standards and specifications for the construction of facilities) associated with the New 
Service Customer’s building Direct Assignment Facilities and Customer-Funded Upgrades that 
are Direct Connection Network Upgrades, including but not limited to Costs for tie-in work and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.9.0 Security, Billing 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 2 
Cancellation Costs.  Interconnected Transmission Owner’s oversight costs shall be consistent 
with Attachment GG, Appendix III, section 6.2.2(a)(12).  If New Services Customer exercises 
the Option to Build pursuant to Appendix III, section 6.2.1, New Services Customer shall pay 
Interconnected Transmission Owner costs associated with its responsibilities pursuant to section 
6.2.1 and in accordance with the amount agreed to by the Interconnected Transmission Owner 
and New Services Customer pursuant to Appendix III, section 6.2.1(a)(12).  Transmission 
Provider shall bill New Service Customer, on behalf of Interconnected Transmission Owner, for 
Interconnected Transmission Owner’s expected costs during the subsequent three months.  New 
Service Customer shall pay each bill within twenty (20) days after receipt thereof.  Upon receipt 
of each of New Service Customer’s payments of such bills, Transmission Provider shall 
reimburse the Interconnected Transmission Owner.  New Service Customer may request that the 
Transmission Provider provide quarterly cost reconciliation.  Such a quarterly cost reconciliation 
will have a one-quarter lag, e.g., reconciliation of costs for the first calendar quarter of work will 
be provided at the start of the third calendar quarter of work, provided, however, that Section 9.3 
of this Appendix III shall govern the timing of the final cost reconciliation upon completion of 
the work. 
 
9.4 Final Invoice.  
 
Within 120 days after Transmission Owner completes construction and installation of the Direct 
Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades under this Upgrade CSA, 
Transmission Provider shall provide New Service Customer with an accounting of, and the 
appropriate Party shall make any payment to the other that is necessary to resolve, any difference 
between:  (a) New Service Customer’s responsibility under the PJM Tariff for the Costs of the 
Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades identified in Appendix I to this 
Upgrade CSA; and (b) New Service Customer’s previous aggregate payments to Transmission 
Provider for the Costs of the facilities identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, Transmission Provider shall not be obligated to make 
any payment to the New Service Customer or the Transmission Owner that the preceding 
sentence requires it to make unless and until the Transmission Provider has received the payment 
that it is required to refund from the Party owing the payment. 
 
9.5 Disputes.   
 
In the event of a billing dispute among the Transmission Provider, Transmission Owner, and 
New Service Customer, Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner shall continue to 
perform their respective obligations pursuant to this Upgrade CSA so long as:  (a) the New 
Service Customer continues to make all payments not in dispute, and the Security held by the 
Transmission Provider while the dispute is pending exceeds the amount in dispute; or (b) the 
New Service Customer pays to Transmission Provider, or into an independent escrow account 
established by the New Service Customer, the portion of the invoice in dispute, pending 
resolution of such dispute.  If the New Service Customer fails to meet any of these requirements, 
then Transmission Provider shall so inform the other Parties and Transmission Provider or the 
Transmission Owner may provide notice to New Service Customer of a Breach pursuant to 
Section 13 of this Appendix III. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.9.0 Security, Billing 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 3 
9.6 Interest.   
 
Interest on any unpaid, delinquent amounts shall be calculated in accordance with the 
methodology specified for interest on refunds in the FERC’s regulations at 18 C.F.R. § 
35.19a(a)(2)(iii) and shall apply from the due date of the bill to the date of payment. 
 
9.7 No Waiver.   
 
Payment of an invoice shall not relieve New Service Customer from any other responsibilities or 
obligations it has under this Upgrade CSA, nor shall such payment constitute a waiver of any 
claims arising hereunder. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.10.0 Assignment 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
10.0 Assignment 
 
10.1 Assignment with Prior Consent.   
 
Subject to Section 10.2 of this Appendix III, no Party shall assign its rights or delegate its duties, 
or any part of such rights or duties, under this Upgrade CSA without the written consent of the 
other Parties, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.  Any 
such assignment or delegation made without such written consent shall be null and void.  In 
addition, the Transmission Owner shall be entitled, subject to Applicable Laws and Regulations, 
to assign this Upgrade CSA to any Affiliate or successor of the Transmission Owner that owns 
and operates all or a substantial portion of such Transmission Owner’s transmission facilities. 
 
10.2 Assignment Without Prior Consent 
 
 10.2.1 Assignment by New Service Customer.   
 
New Service Customer may assign this Upgrade CSA without the Transmission Owner’s or 
Transmission Provider’s prior consent to any Affiliate or person that purchases or otherwise 
acquires, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all of the New Service Customer’s assets 
provided that, prior to the effective date of any such assignment, the assignee shall demonstrate 
that, as of the effective date of the assignment, the assignee has the technical competence and 
financial ability to comply with the requirements of this Upgrade CSA and assumes in a writing 
provided to the Transmission Owner and Transmission Provider all rights, duties, and obligations 
of New Service Customer arising under this Upgrade CSA.  However, any assignment described 
herein shall not relieve or discharge the New Service Customer from any of its obligations 
hereunder absent the written consent of the Transmission Owner, such consent not to be 
unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. 
 
 10.2.2 Assignment by Transmission Owner.   
 
Transmission Owner may assign this Upgrade CSA without the Transmission Provider’s or New 
Service Customer’s prior consent to any Affiliate or person that purchases or otherwise acquires, 
directly or indirectly, all or substantially all of the Transmission Owner’s assets provided that 
prior to the effective date of any such assignment, the assignee shall demonstrate that, as of the 
effective date of the assignment, the assignee has the technical competence and financial ability 
to comply with the requirements of this Upgrade CSA and assumes in a writing provided to the 
Transmission Provider and New Service Customer all rights, duties, and obligations of 
Transmission Owner arising under this Upgrade CSA.  However, any assignment described 
herein shall not relieve or discharge the Transmission Owner from any of its obligations 
hereunder absent the written consent of the New Service Customer, such consent not to be 
unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. 
 
 10.2.3 Assignment to Lenders.   
 
New Service Customer may, without the consent of the Transmission Provider or the 
Transmission Owner, assign this Upgrade CSA to any Project Finance Entity(ies), provided that 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.10.0 Assignment 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 2 
such assignment shall not alter or diminish New Service Customer’s duties and obligations under 
this Upgrade CSA.  If New Service Customer provides the Transmission Owner with notice of 
an assignment to any Project Finance Entity(ies) and identifies such Project Finance Entity(ies) 
as contacts for notice purposes pursuant to Article 6 of this Upgrade CSA, the Transmission 
Provider or Transmission Owner shall provide notice and reasonable opportunity for such 
entity(ies) to cure any Breach under this Upgrade CSA in accordance with this Upgrade CSA.  
Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner shall, if requested by such lenders, provide such 
customary and reasonable documents, including consents to assignment, as may be reasonably 
requested with respect to the assignment and status of this Upgrade CSA, provided that such 
documents do not alter or diminish the rights of the Transmission Provider or Transmission 
Owner under this Upgrade CSA, except with respect to providing notice of Breach to a Project 
Finance Entity.  Upon presentation of the Transmission Provider’s and/or the Transmission 
Owner’s invoice therefore, New Service Customer shall pay the Transmission Provider and/or 
the Transmission Owner’s reasonable documented cost of providing such documents and 
certificates.  Any assignment described herein shall not relieve or discharge the New Service 
Customer from any of its obligations hereunder absent the written consent of the Transmission 
Owner and Transmission Provider. 
 
10.3 Successors and Assigns.  
 
This Upgrade CSA and all of its provisions are binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the 
Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner and their respective successors and permitted 
assigns. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.11.0 Insurance 
Effective Date: 1/30/2013 - Docket #: ER13-484-000 - Page 1 
11.0 Insurance 
 
11.1 Required Coverages.   
 
Constructing Entity shall maintain, at its own expense, insurance as described in paragraphs A 
through E below.  All insurance shall be procured from insurance companies rated “A-,” VII or 
better by AM Best and authorized to do business in a State or States in which the Direct 
Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade 
CSA, will be located.  Failure to maintain required insurance shall be a Breach of this Upgrade 
CSA. 
 
 A. Workers Compensation Insurance with statutory limits, as required by the State 
and/or jurisdiction in which the work is to be performed, and employer’s liability insurance with 
limits of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000). 
 
 B. Commercial General Liability Insurance and/or Excess Liability Insurance 
covering liability arising out of premises, operations, personal injury, advertising,  products and 
completed operations coverage, independent contractors coverage, liability assumed under an 
insured contract, coverage for pollution to the extent normally available and punitive damages to 
the extent allowable under applicable law, with limits of not less than one million dollars 
($1,000,000) per occurrence/one million dollars ($1,000,000) general aggregate/one million 
dollars ($1,000,000) each accident products and completed operations aggregate. 
 
 C. Business/Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance for coverage of owned and 
non-owned and hired vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers designed for travel on public roads, with a 
minimum, combined single limit of no less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) each accident 
for bodily injury, including death, and property damage. 
 
 D. Excess and/or Umbrella Liability Insurance with a limit of liability of twenty 
million dollars ($20,000,000) per occurrence. These limits apply in excess of the employer’s 
liability, commercial general liability and business/commercial automobile liability coverages 
described above.  This requirement can be met alone or via a combination of primary, excess 
and/or umbrella insurance. 
 
 E. Professional Liability, including Contractors Legal Liability, providing errors, 
omissions and/or malpractice coverage.  Coverage shall be provided for the Constructing 
Entity’s duties, responsibilities and performance outlined in this Upgrade CSA, with limits of 
liability as follows: 
 
$10,000,000 each occurrence 
 
$10,000,000 aggregate 
 
An entity may meet the Professional Liability Insurance requirements by requiring third-party 
contractors, designers, or engineers, or other parties that are responsible for design and 
engineering work associated with the Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.11.0 Insurance 
Effective Date: 1/30/2013 - Docket #: ER13-484-000 - Page 2 
Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, necessary for the transmission service 
to procure professional liability insurance in the amounts and upon the terms prescribed by this 
section, and providing evidence of such insurance to the other entity.  Such insurance shall be 
procured from companies rated “A-,” VII or better by AM Best and authorized to do business in 
a State or States in which the Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded Upgrades, 
identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, are located.  Nothing in this section relieves the 
entity from complying with the insurance requirements.  In the event that the policies of the 
designers, engineers, or other parties used to satisfy the entity’s insurance obligations under this 
section become invalid for any reason, including but not limited to:  (i) the policy(ies) lapsing or 
otherwise terminating or expiring; (ii) the coverage limits of such policy(ies) are decreased; or 
(iii) the policy(ies) do not comply with the terms and conditions of the PJM Tariff; entity shall be 
required to procure insurance sufficient to meet the requirements of this section, such that there 
is no lapse in insurance coverage. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event an entity will not 
design, engineer or construct or cause to design, engineer or construct any new Direct 
Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded Upgrades, Transmission Provider, in its discretion, 
may waive the requirement that an entity maintain the Professional Liability Insurance pursuant 
to this section. 
 
11.2 Additional Insureds.  
 
The Commercial General Liability, Business/Commercial Automobile Liability and Excess 
and/or Umbrella Liability policies procured by each Constructing Entity (“Insuring Constructing 
Entity”) shall include each other party (the “Insured Party”), its officers, agents and employees as 
additional insureds, providing all standard coverages and covering liability of the Insured Party 
arising out of bodily injury and/or property damage (including loss of use) in any way connected 
with the operations, performance, or lack of performance under this Upgrade CSA. 
 
11.3 Other Required Terms.  
 
The above-mentioned insurance policies (except workers’ compensation) shall provide the 
following: 
 
 (a) Each policy shall contain provisions that specify that it is primary and non 
contributory for any liability arising out of that party’s negligence, and shall apply to such extent 
without consideration for other policies separately carried and shall state that each insured is 
provided coverage as though a separate policy had been issued to each, except the insurer’s 
liability shall not be increased beyond the amount for which the insurer would have been liable 
had only one insured been covered.  Each Insuring Constructing Entity shall be responsible for 
its respective deductibles or retentions. 
 
 (b) If any coverage is written on a Claims First Made Basis, continuous coverage 
shall be maintained or an extended discovery period will be exercised for a period of not less 
than two (2) years after termination of this Upgrade CSA. 
 
 (c) Provide for a waiver of all rights of subrogation which the Insuring Constructing 
Entity’s insurance carrier might exercise against the Insured Party. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.11.0 Insurance 
Effective Date: 1/30/2013 - Docket #: ER13-484-000 - Page 3 
 
11.4 No Limitation of Liability.   
 
The requirements contained herein as to the types and limits of all insurance to be maintained by 
the Constructing Entities are not intended to and shall not in any manner, limit or qualify the 
liabilities and obligations assumed by the Parties under this Upgrade CSA. 
 
11.5 Self-Insurance.   
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Constructing Entity may self-insure to meet the minimum 
insurance requirements of this section to the extent it maintains a self-insurance program; 
provided that such Constructing Entity’s senior secured debt is rated at investment grade or 
better by Standard & Poor’s and its self-insurance program meets the minimum insurance 
requirements of this Section 11.  For any period of time that a Constructing Entity’s senior 
secured debt is unrated by Standard & Poor’s or is rated at less than investment grade by 
Standard & Poor’s, it shall comply with the insurance requirements applicable to it under this 
Section 11.  In the event that a Constructing Entity is permitted to self-insure pursuant to this 
section, it shall notify the other Parties that it meets the requirements to self-insure and that its 
self-insurance program meets the minimum insurance requirements in a manner consistent with 
that specified in Section 11.6 of this Appendix III. 
 
11.6 Notices; Certificates of Insurance.   
 
Prior to the commencement of work pursuant to this Upgrade CSA, the Constructing Entities 
agree to furnish certificate(s) of insurance evidencing the insurance coverage obtained in 
accordance with Section 11 of this Appendix III.  All certificates of insurance shall indicate that 
the certificate holder is included as an additional insured under the Commercial General 
Liability, Business/Commercial Automobile Liability and Excess and/or Umbrella Liability 
coverages, and that this insurance is primary with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the other 
Interconnected Entities.  All policies of insurance shall provide for thirty days prior written 
notice of cancellation or material adverse change.  If the policies of insurance do not or cannot be 
endorsed to provide thirty days prior written notice of cancellation or material adverse change, 
each Constructing Entity shall provide the other Constructing Entities with thirty days prior 
written notice of cancellation or material adverse change to any of the insurance required in this 
Upgrade CSA. 
 
11.7 Subcontractor Insurance.   
 
In accord with Good Utility Practice, each Constructing Entity shall require each of its 
subcontractors to maintain and provide evidence of insurance coverage of types, and in amounts, 
commensurate with the risks associated with the services provided by the subcontractor.  
Bonding of contractors or subcontractors shall be at the hiring Constructing Entity’s discretion, 
but regardless of bonding, the Transmission Owner shall be responsible for the performance or 
non-performance of any contractor or subcontractor it hires. 
 
11.8 Reporting Incidents:   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.11.0 Insurance 
Effective Date: 1/30/2013 - Docket #: ER13-484-000 - Page 4 
 
The Parties shall report to each other in writing as soon as practical all accidents or occurrences 
resulting in injuries to any person, including death, and any property damage arising out of this 
Upgrade CSA. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.12.0 Indemnity 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
12.0 Indemnity 
 
12.1 Indemnity.   
 
Each Constructing Entity shall indemnify and hold harmless the other Parties, and the other 
Parties’ officers, shareholders, stakeholders, members, managers, representatives, directors, 
agents and employees, and Affiliates, from and against any and all loss, liability, damage, cost or 
expense to third parties, including damage and liability for bodily injury to or death of persons, 
or damage to property of persons (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses, litigation 
costs, consultant fees, investigation fees, sums paid in settlements of claims, penalties or fines 
imposed under Applicable Laws and Regulations, and any such fees and expenses incurred in 
enforcing this indemnity or collecting any sums due hereunder) (collectively, “Loss”) to the 
extent arising out of, in connection with or resulting from:  (i) the indemnifying Constructing 
Entity’s breach of any of the representations or warranties made in, or failure of the 
indemnifying Constructing Entity or any of its subcontractors to perform any of its obligations 
under, this Upgrade CSA; or (ii) the negligence or willful misconduct of the indemnifying 
Constructing Entity or its contractors; provided, however, that the neither Constructing Entity 
shall not have any indemnification obligations under this Section in respect of any Loss to the 
extent the Loss results from the negligence or willful misconduct of the Party seeking indemnity. 
 
12.2 Indemnity Procedures.   
 
Promptly after receipt by a person entitled to indemnity (“Indemnified Person”) of any claim or 
notice of the commencement of any action or administrative or legal proceeding or investigation 
as to which the indemnity provided for in this Section 12 may apply, the Indemnified Person 
shall notify the indemnifying Constructing Entity of such fact.  Any failure of or delay in such 
notification shall not affect a Constructing Entity’s indemnification obligation unless such failure 
or delay is materially prejudicial to the indemnifying Constructing Entity.  The Indemnified 
Person shall cooperate with the indemnifying Constructing Entity with respect to the matter for 
which indemnification is claimed.  The indemnifying Constructing Entity shall have the right to 
assume the defense thereof with counsel designated by such indemnifying Constructing Entity 
and reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person.  If the defendants in any such action 
include one or more Indemnified Persons and the indemnifying Constructing Entity and if the 
Indemnified Person reasonably concludes that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or 
other Indemnified Persons which are different from or additional to those available to the 
indemnifying Constructing Entity, the Indemnified Person shall have the right to select separate 
counsel to assert such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on 
its own behalf.  In such instances, the indemnifying Constructing Entity shall only be required to 
pay the fees and expenses of one additional attorney to represent an Indemnified Person or 
Indemnified Persons having such differing or additional legal defenses.  The Indemnified Person 
shall be entitled, at its expense, to participate in any action, suit or proceeding, the defense of 
which has been assumed by the indemnifying Constructing Entity.  Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, the indemnifying Constructing Entity shall not:  (i) be entitled to assume and control 
the defense of any such action, suit or proceedings if and to the extent that, in the opinion of the 
Indemnified Person and its counsel, such action, suit or proceeding involves the potential 
imposition of criminal liability on the Indemnified Person, or there exists a conflict or adversity 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.12.0 Indemnity 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 2 
of interest between the Indemnified Person and the indemnifying Constructing Entity, in such 
event the indemnifying Constructing Entity shall pay the reasonable expenses of the Indemnified 
Person; and (ii) settle or consent to the entry of any judgment in any action, suit or proceeding 
without the consent of the Indemnified Person, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, 
conditioned or delayed. 
 
12.3 Indemnified Person.   
 
If an Indemnified Person is entitled to indemnification under this Section 12 as a result of a claim 
by a third party, and the indemnifying Constructing Entity fails, after notice and reasonable 
opportunity to proceed under this Section 12, to assume the defense of such claim, such 
Indemnified Person may at the expense of the indemnifying Constructing Entity contest, settle or 
consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, or pay in full, such claim. 
 
12.4 Amount Owing.   
 
If the indemnifying Constructing Entity is obligated to indemnify and hold any Indemnified 
Person harmless under this Section 12, the amount owing to the Indemnified Person shall be the 
amount of such Indemnified Person’s actual Loss, net of any insurance or other recovery. 
 
12.5 Limitation on Damages.   
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 12, the liability of a Party shall be limited to direct 
actual damages, and all other damages at law are waived.  Under no circumstances shall any 
Party or its Affiliates, directors, officers, employees and agents, or any of them, be liable to 
another Party, whether in tort, contract or other basis in law or equity for any special, indirect, 
punitive, exemplary or consequential damages, including lost profits.  The limitations on 
damages specified in this Section 12.5 are without regard to the cause or causes related thereto, 
including the negligence of any Party, whether such negligence be sole, joint or concurrent, or 
active or passive.  This limitation on damages shall not affect any Party’s rights to obtain 
equitable relief as otherwise provided in this Upgrade CSA.  The provisions of this Section 12 
shall survive the termination or expiration of this Upgrade CSA. 
 
12.6 Limitation of Liability in Event of Breach.   
 
A Breaching Party shall have no liability hereunder to any other Party, and each other Party 
hereby releases the Breaching Party, for all claims or damages it incurs that are associated with 
any interruption in the availability of the Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded 
Upgrades identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, the Transmission System, or 
Transmission Service, or associated with damage to the Direct Assignment Facilities or 
Customer-Funded Upgrades identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, except to the extent 
such interruption or damage is caused by the Breaching Party’s gross negligence or willful 
misconduct in the performance of its obligations under this Upgrade CSA. 
 
12.7 Limited Liability in Emergency Conditions.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.12.0 Indemnity 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 3 
Except as otherwise provided in the PJM Tariff or the Operating Agreement, no Party shall be 
liable to any other Party for any action that it takes in responding to an Emergency Condition, so 
long as such action is made in good faith, is consistent with Good Utility Practice and is not 
contrary to the directives of the Transmission Provider or the Transmission Owner with respect 
to such Emergency Condition.  Notwithstanding the above, New Service Customer shall be 
liable in the event that it fails to comply with any instructions of Transmission Provider or the 
Transmission Owner related to an Emergency Condition. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.13.0 Breach, Cure And 
Def 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
13.0 Breach, Cure And Default 
 
13.1 Breach.   
 
A Breach of this Upgrade CSA shall include: 
 
 (a) The failure to pay any amount when due; 
 
 (b) The failure to comply with any material term or condition of this Upgrade CSA 
including but not limited to any material breach of a representation, warranty or covenant made 
in this Upgrade CSA; 
 
 (c) Assignment of this Upgrade CSA in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this 
Upgrade CSA; or 
 
 (d) Failure of any Party to provide information or data required to be provided to 
another Party under this Upgrade CSA for such other Party to satisfy its obligations under this 
Upgrade CSA. 
 
13.2 Notice of Breach.   
 
In the event of a Breach, a Party not in Breach of this Upgrade CSA shall give written notice of 
such Breach to the Breaching Party, the other Party and to any other persons that the Breaching 
Party identifies in writing prior to the Breach.  Such notice shall set forth, in reasonable detail, 
the nature of the Breach, and where known and applicable, the steps necessary to cure such 
Breach.  In the event of a Breach by New Service Customer, Transmission Provider and the 
Transmission Owner agree to provide notice of such Breach, at the same time and in the same 
manner as its or their notice to New Service Customer, to any Project Finance Entity, provided 
that the New Service Customer has provided Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner 
with notice of an assignment to such Project Finance Entity(ies) and has identified such Project 
Finance Entities as contacts for notice. 
 
13.3 Cure and Default.   
 
A Party that commits a Breach and does not take steps to cure the Breach pursuant to this Section 
is in Default of this Upgrade CSA. 
 
 13.3.1 Cure of Breach.   
 
The Breaching Party may:  (a) cure the Breach within thirty days from the receipt of such notice; 
or, (b) if the Breach cannot be cured within thirty days, commence in good faith all steps that are 
reasonable and appropriate to cure the Breach within such thirty day time period and thereafter 
diligently pursue such action to completion. 
 
13.4 Right to Compel Performance.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.13.0 Breach, Cure And 
Def 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 2 
Upon the occurrence of an event of Default, a non-Defaulting Party shall be entitled to:  (a) 
commence an action to require the Defaulting Party to remedy such Default and specifically 
perform its duties and obligations hereunder in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof; 
(b) withhold payments; (c) suspend performance hereunder; and (d) exercise such other rights 
and remedies as it may have in equity or at law. 
 
13.5 Remedies Cumulative.   
 
No remedy conferred by any provision of this Upgrade CSA is intended to be exclusive of any 
other remedy and each and every remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every 
other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute or 
otherwise.  The election of any one or more remedies shall not constitute a waiver of the right to 
pursue other available remedies. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.14.0 Termination 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
14.0 Termination 
 
14.1 Termination 
 
 14.1.1 Upon Completion of Construction.   
 
This Upgrade CSA shall terminate upon the later of the following:  (i) completion of 
construction of all Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades identified in 
Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA; (ii) final payment of all Costs due and owing under this 
Upgrade CSA; and (iii) termination of all rights provided under this Upgrade CSA. 
 
 14.1.2 By New Service Customer.  
 
Subject to its payment of Cancellation Costs as explained in Section 14.2 of this Appendix III, 
the New Service Customer may be relieved of its obligations hereunder upon written notice to 
Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner. 
 
14.2 Cancellation By New Service Customer 
 
 14.2.1 Applicability.   
 
The following provisions shall apply in the event that New Service Customer terminates this 
Upgrade CSA: 
 
 14.2.2 Cancellation Cost Responsibility.   
 
Upon the cancellation of this Upgrade CSA by the New Service Customer, the New Service 
Customer shall be liable to pay to the Transmission Owner or Transmission Provider all 
Cancellation Costs in connection with this Upgrade CSA.  In the event the Transmission Owner 
incurs Cancellation Costs, it shall provide the Transmission Provider, with a copy to the New 
Service Customer, with written demand for payment and with reasonable documentation of such 
Cancellation Costs.  The New Service Customer shall pay to Transmission Provider each bill for 
Cancellation Costs within thirty (30) days after, as applicable, the Transmission Owner’s or 
Transmission Provider’s presentation to the New Service Customer of written demand therefore, 
provided that such demand includes reasonable documentation of the Cancellation Costs that the 
invoicing Party seeks to collect.  Upon receipt of each of New Service Customer’s payments of 
such bills of the Transmission Owner, Transmission Provider shall reimburse the Transmission 
Owner for Cancellation Costs incurred by the latter. 
 
 14.2.3 Disposition of Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded Upgrades 
Upon Cancellation.   
 
Upon cancellation of this Upgrade CSA by the New Service Customer, Transmission Provider, 
after consulting with the Transmission Owner, may, at the sole cost and expense of the New 
Service Customer, authorize the Transmission Owner to:  (a) cancel supplier and contractor 
orders and agreements entered into by the Transmission Owner to design, engineer, construct, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.14.0 Termination 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 2 
install, operate, maintain and own the Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded 
Upgrades identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, provided, however, that New Service 
Customer shall have the right to choose to take delivery of any equipment ordered by the 
Transmission Owner for which Transmission Provider otherwise would authorize cancellation of 
the purchase order; (b) remove any Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded 
Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, built by the Transmission Owner; (c) 
partially or entirely complete the Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded 
Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, as necessary to preserve the integrity or 
reliability of the Transmission System, provided that New Service Customer shall be entitled to 
receive any rights associated with such Customer-Funded Upgrades as determined in accordance 
with the PJM Tariff; or (d) undo any of the changes to the Transmission System that were made 
pursuant to this Upgrade CSA.  To the extent that the New Service Customer has fully paid for 
equipment that is unused upon cancellation or which is removed pursuant to this Section, the 
New Service Customer shall have the right to take back title to such equipment; alternatively, in 
the event that the New Service Customer does not wish to take back title, the Transmission 
Owner may elect to pay the New Service Customer a mutually agreed amount to acquire and 
own such equipment. 
 
 14.2.4 Termination Upon Default.   
 
In the event that New Service Customer exercises its right to terminate under this Section 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Upgrade CSA, the New Service Customer shall be 
liable for payment of the Transmission Owner’s Costs incurred up to the date of New Service 
Customer’s notice of termination pursuant to this Section and the costs of completion of some or 
all of the Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades, or specific unfinished 
portions thereof, and/or removal of any or all of such Direct Assignment Facilities and/or 
Customer-Funded Upgrades that have been installed, to the extent that Transmission Provider 
determines such completion or removal to be required for the Transmission Provider and/or the 
Transmission Owner to perform their respective obligations under the PJM Tariff, provided, 
however, that New Service Customer’s payment of such costs shall be without prejudice to any 
remedies that otherwise may be available to it under this Upgrade CSA for the Default of the 
Transmission Owner. 
 
14.3 Survival of Rights.   
 
The obligations of the Parties hereunder with respect to payments, Cancellation Costs, 
warranties, liability and indemnification shall survive termination to the extent necessary to 
provide for the determination and enforcement of said obligations arising from acts or events that 
occurred while this Upgrade CSA was in effect.  In addition, applicable provisions of this 
Upgrade CSA will continue in effect after expiration, cancellation or termination to the extent 
necessary to provide for final billings, payments, and billing adjustments. 
 
14.4 Filing at FERC.   
 
The Transmission Provider shall make a filing with FERC pursuant to Section 205 of the Federal 
Power Act effectuating the termination of this Upgrade CSA. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.15.0 Force Majeure 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
15.0 Force Majeure 
 
15.1 Notice.   
 
A Party that is unable to carry out an obligation imposed on it by this Upgrade CSA due to Force 
Majeure shall notify the other Parties in writing or by telephone within a reasonable time after 
the occurrence of the cause relied on. 
 
15.2 Duration of Force Majeure.   
 
A Party shall not be responsible for any non-performance or considered in Breach or Default 
under this Upgrade CSA, for any non-performance, any interruption or failure of service, 
deficiency in the quality or quantity of service, or any other failure to perform any obligation 
hereunder to the extent that such failure or deficiency is due to Force Majeure.  A Party shall be 
excused from whatever performance is affected only for the duration of the Force Majeure and 
while the Party exercises Reasonable Efforts to alleviate such situation.  As soon as the non-
performing Party is able to resume performance of its obligations excused because of the 
occurrence of Force Majeure, such Party shall resume performance and give prompt notice 
thereof to the other Party. 
 
15.3 Obligation to Make Payments.   
 
Any Party’s obligation to make payments for services shall not be suspended by Force Majeure. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.16.0 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
16.0 Confidentiality.   
 
Information is Confidential Information only if it is clearly designated or marked in writing as 
confidential on the face of the document, or, if the information is conveyed orally or by 
inspection, if the Party providing the information orally informs the other Party receiving the 
information that the information is confidential.  If requested by any Party, the disclosing Party 
shall provide in writing the basis for asserting that the information referred to in this section 
warrants confidential treatment, and the requesting Party may disclose such writing to an 
appropriate Governmental Authority.  Any Party shall be responsible for the costs associated 
with affording confidential treatment to its information. 
 
16.1 Term.   
 
During the term of this Upgrade CSA, and for a period of three (3) years after the termination of 
this Upgrade CSA, except as otherwise provided in Section 16 of this Upgrade CSA, each Party 
shall hold in confidence, and shall not disclose to any person, Confidential Information provided 
to it by any Party. 
 
16.2 Scope.   
 
Confidential Information shall not include information that the receiving Party can demonstrate:  
(i) is generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by the receiving Party; 
(ii) was in the lawful possession of the receiving Party on a non-confidential basis before 
receiving it from the disclosing Party; (iii) was supplied to the receiving Party without restriction 
by a third party, who, to the knowledge of the receiving Party, after due inquiry, was under no 
obligation to the disclosing Party to keep such information confidential; (iv) was independently 
developed by the receiving Party without reference to Confidential Information of the disclosing 
Party; (v) is, or becomes, publicly known, through no wrongful act or omission of the receiving 
Party or breach of this Upgrade CSA; or (vi) is required, in accordance with Section 16.7 of this 
Appendix III, to be disclosed to any Governmental Authority or is otherwise required to be 
disclosed by law or subpoena, or is necessary in any legal proceeding establishing rights and 
obligations under this Upgrade CSA.  Information designated as Confidential Information shall 
no longer be deemed confidential if the Party that designated the information as confidential 
notifies the other Parties that it no longer is confidential. 
 
16.3 Release of Confidential Information.   
 
No Party shall disclose Confidential Information of another Party to any other person, except to 
its Affiliates (in accordance with the Commission’s Standards of Conduct requirements), 
subcontractors, employees, consultants or to parties who may be or considering providing 
financing to or equity participation in New Service Customer on a need-to-know basis in 
connection with this Upgrade CSA, unless such person has first been advised of the 
confidentiality provisions of this Section and has agreed to comply with such provisions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Party that provides Confidential Information of another Party 
to any person shall remain responsible for any release of Confidential Information in 
contravention of this Section. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.16.0 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 2 
 
16.4 Rights.   
 
Each Party retains all rights, title, and interest in the Confidential Information that it discloses to 
any other Party.  A Party’s disclosure to another Party of Confidential Information shall not be 
deemed a waiver by any Party or any other person or entity of the right to protect the 
Confidential Information from public disclosure. 
 
16.5 No Warranties.   
 
By providing Confidential Information, no Party makes any warranties or representations as to 
its accuracy or completeness.  In addition, by supplying Confidential Information, no Party 
obligates itself to provide any particular information or Confidential Information to any other 
Party nor to enter into any further agreements or proceed with any other relationship or joint 
venture. 
 
16.6 Standard of Care.   
 
Each Party shall use at least the same standard of care to protect Confidential Information it 
receives as the Party uses to protect its own Confidential Information from unauthorized 
disclosure, publication or dissemination.  Each Party may use Confidential Information solely to 
fulfill its obligations to the other Parties under this Upgrade CSA or to comply with Applicable 
Laws and Regulations. 
 
16.7 Order of Disclosure.   
 
If a Governmental Authority with the right, power, and apparent authority to do so requests or 
requires a Party, by subpoena, oral deposition, interrogatories, requests for production of 
documents, administrative order, or otherwise, to disclose Confidential Information, that Party 
shall provide the Party that provided the information with prompt prior notice of such request(s) 
or requirement(s) so that the providing Party may seek an appropriate protective order, or waive 
compliance with the terms of this Upgrade CSA.  Notwithstanding the absence of a protective 
order, or agreement, or waiver, the Party subjected to the request or order may disclose such 
Confidential Information which, in the opinion of its counsel, the Party is legally compelled to 
disclose.  Each Party shall use Reasonable Efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential 
treatment will be accorded any Confidential Information so furnished. 
 
16.8 Termination of Upgrade Construction Service Agreement.   
 
Upon termination of this Upgrade CSA for any reason, each Party shall, within ten (10) calendar 
days of receipt of a written request from another Party, use Reasonable Efforts to destroy, erase, 
or delete (with such destruction, erasure and deletion certified in writing to the requesting Party) 
or to return to the requesting Party, without retaining copies thereof, any and all written or 
electronic Confidential Information received from the requesting Party. 
 
16.9 Remedies.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.16.0 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 3 
 
The Parties agree that monetary damages would be inadequate to compensate a Party for another 
Party’s Breach of its obligations under this Section 16.  Each Party accordingly agrees that the 
other Party shall be entitled to equitable relief, by way of injunction or otherwise, if the first 
Party breaches or threatens to breach its obligations under this Section, which equitable relief 
shall be granted without bond or proof of damages, and the receiving Party shall not plead in 
defense that there would be an adequate remedy at law.  Such remedy shall not be deemed to be 
an exclusive remedy for the breach of this Section, but shall be in addition to all other remedies 
available at law or in equity.  The Parties further acknowledge and agree that the covenants 
contained herein are necessary for the protection of legitimate business interests and are 
reasonable in scope.  No Party, however, shall be liable for indirect, incidental, consequential, or 
punitive damages of any nature or kind resulting from or arising in connection with a Breach of 
any obligation under this Section 16. 
 
16.10 Disclosure to FERC or its Staff.   
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, and pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 1b.20, if 
FERC or its staff, during the course of an investigation or otherwise, requests information from 
one of the Parties that is otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to this 
Upgrade CSA, the Party, shall provide the requested information to FERC or its staff, within the 
time provided for in the request for information.  In providing the information to FERC or its 
staff, the Party must, consistent with 18 C.F.R. § 388.112, request that the information be treated 
as confidential and non-public by FERC and its staff and that the information be withheld from 
public disclosure.  Parties are prohibited from notifying the other Parties to this Upgrade CSA 
prior to the release of the Confidential Information to the Commission or its staff.  A Party shall 
notify the other Parties when it is notified by FERC or its staff that a request to release 
Confidential Information has been received by FERC, at which time any of the Parties may 
respond before such information would be made public, pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 388.112. 
 
16.11  
 
Subject to the exception noted above in Section 16.10 of this Appendix III, no Party shall 
disclose Confidential Information of Party to any person not employed or retained by the 
disclosing Party, except to the extent disclosure is:  (i) required by law; (ii) reasonably deemed 
by the disclosing Party to be required in connection with a dispute between or among the Parties, 
or the defense of litigation or dispute; (iii) otherwise permitted by consent of the Party that 
provided such Confidential Information, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld; or (iv) 
necessary to fulfill its obligations under this Upgrade CSA or as a transmission service provider 
or a Control Area operator including disclosing the Confidential Information to an RTO or ISO 
or to a regional or national reliability organization.  Prior to any disclosures of another Party’s 
Confidential Information under this subparagraph, the disclosing Party shall promptly notify the 
other Parties in writing and shall assert confidentiality and cooperate with the other Parties in 
seeking to protect the Confidential Information from public disclosure by confidentiality 
agreement, protective order or other reasonable measures. 
 
16.12  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.16.0 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 4 
 
This provision shall not apply to any information that was or is hereafter in the public domain 
(except as a result of a Breach of this provision). 
 
16.13 Return or Destruction of Confidential Information.   
 
If any Party provides any Confidential Information to another Party in the course of an audit or 
inspection, the providing Party may request the other Party to return or destroy such Confidential 
Information after the termination of the audit period and the resolution of all matters relating to 
that audit.  Each Party shall make Reasonable Efforts to comply with any such requests for return 
or destruction within ten days after receiving the request and shall certify in writing to the 
requesting Party that it has complied with such request. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.17.0 Information Access 
And  
Effective Date: 4/1/2015 - Docket #: EL15-29-000 - Page 1 
17.0 Information Access And Audit Rights 
 
17.1 Information Access.   
 
Subject to Applicable Laws and Regulations, each Party shall make available to the other Parties 
information necessary:  (i) to verify the Costs incurred by the other Party for which the 
requesting Party is responsible under this Upgrade CSA and the PJM Tariff; and (ii) to carry out 
obligations and responsibilities under this Upgrade CSA and the PJM Tariff.  The Parties shall 
not use such information for purposes other than those set forth in this Section 17 and to enforce 
their rights under this Upgrade CSA and the PJM Tariff. 
 
17.2 Reporting of Non-Force Majeure Events.   
 
Each Party shall notify the other Parties when it becomes aware of its inability to comply with 
the provisions of this Upgrade CSA for a reason other than an event of force majeure as defined 
in Section 1.21 of Appendix 2 of this Attachment GG.  The Parties agree to cooperate with each 
other and provide necessary information regarding such inability to comply, including, but not 
limited to, the date, duration, reason for the inability to comply, and corrective actions taken or 
planned to be taken with respect to such inability to comply.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
notification, cooperation or information provided under this Section 17 shall not entitle the 
receiving Party to allege a cause of action for anticipatory breach of this Upgrade CSA and the 
PJM Tariff. 
 
17.3 Audit Rights.   
 
Subject to the requirements of confidentiality of this Upgrade CSA and the PJM Tariff, each 
Party shall have the right, during normal business hours, and upon prior reasonable notice to the 
pertinent Party, to audit at its own expense the other Party’s accounts and records pertaining to 
such Party’s performance and/or satisfaction of obligations arising under this Upgrade CSA and 
the PJM Tariff.  Any audit authorized by this Section 17 shall be performed at the offices where 
such accounts and records are maintained and shall be limited to those portions of such accounts 
and records that relate to obligations under this Upgrade CSA.  Any request for audit shall be 
presented to the other Party not later than twenty-four months after the event as to which the 
audit is sought.  Each Party shall preserve all records held by it for the duration of the audit 
period. 
 
17.4 Waiver.   
 
Any waiver at any time by any Party of its rights with respect to a Breach or Default under this 
Upgrade CSA, or with respect to any other matters arising in connection with this Upgrade CSA, 
shall not be deemed a waiver or continuing waiver with respect to any other Breach or Default or 
other matter. 
 
17.5 Amendments and Rights under the Federal Power Act.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.17.0 Information Access 
And  
Effective Date: 4/1/2015 - Docket #: EL15-29-000 - Page 2 
Except as set forth in this Section 17, this Upgrade CSA may be amended, modified, or 
supplemented only by written agreement of the Parties.  Such amendment shall become effective 
and a part of this Upgrade CSA upon satisfaction of all Applicable Laws and Regulations.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this Upgrade CSA shall be construed as 
affecting in any way any of the rights of any Party with respect to changes in applicable rates or 
charges under Section 205 of the Federal Power Act and/or FERC’s rules and regulations 
thereunder, or any of the rights of any Party under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act and/or 
FERC’s rules and regulations thereunder.  The terms and conditions of this Upgrade CSA shall 
be amended, as mutually agreed by the Parties, to comply with changes or alterations made 
necessary by a valid applicable order of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction hereof. 
 
17.6 Regulatory Requirements.   
 
Each Party’s performance of any obligation under this Upgrade CSA for which such Party 
requires approval or authorization of any Governmental Authority shall be subject to its receipt 
of such required approval or authorization in the form and substance satisfactory to the receiving 
Party, or the Party making any required filings with, or providing notice to, such Governmental 
Authorities, and the expiration of any time period associated therewith.  Each Party shall in good 
faith seek, and shall use Reasonable Efforts to obtain, such required authorizations or approvals 
as soon as reasonably practicable. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.18.0 Representations and 
Wa 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
18.0 Representations and Warranties 
 
18.1 General.   
 
Each Constructing Entity hereby represents, warrants and covenants as follows, with these 
representations, warranties, and covenants effective as to the Constructing Entity during the full 
time this Upgrade CSA is effective: 
 
 18.1.1 Good Standing.   
 
Such Constructing Entity is duly organized or formed, as applicable, validly existing and in good 
standing under the laws of its State of organization or formation, and is in good standing under 
the laws of the respective State(s) in which it is incorporated. 
 
 18.1.2 Authority.   
 
Such Constructing Entity has the right, power and authority to enter into this Upgrade CSA, to 
become a Party thereto and to perform its obligations thereunder.  This Upgrade CSA is a legal, 
valid and binding obligation of such Constructing Entity, enforceable against such Constructing 
Entity in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by 
applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws affecting creditors’ rights 
generally and by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforceability is sought in a 
proceeding in equity or at law). 
 
 18.1.3 No Conflict.   
 
The execution, delivery and performance of this Upgrade CSA does not violate or conflict with 
the organizational or formation documents, or bylaws or operating agreement, of such 
Constructing Entity, or any judgment, license, permit, order, material agreement or instrument 
applicable to or binding upon such Constructing Entity or any of its assets. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG-APPENDIX III.19.0 Inspection and 
Testing 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
19.0 Inspection and Testing of Completed Facilities 
 
19.1 Coordination.   
 
New Service Customer and the Transmission Owner shall coordinate the timing and schedule of 
all inspection and testing of the Direct Assignment Facilities and Customer-Funded Upgrades, 
identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA. 
 
19.2 Inspection and Testing.   
 
Each Constructing Entity shall cause inspection and testing of any Direct Assignment Facilities 
and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades that it constructs in accordance with the provisions of this 
section. The Parties acknowledge and agree that inspection and testing of facilities may be 
undertaken as facilities are completed and need not await completion of all of the facilities that a 
Constructing Entity is building.  
 
 19.2.1 Of New Service Customer-Built Facilities.   
 
Upon the completion of the construction and installation, but prior to energization, of any Direct 
Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades constructed by the New Service 
Customer shall have the same inspected and/or tested by an authorized electric inspection agency 
or qualified third party reasonably acceptable to the Transmission Owner to assess whether the 
facilities substantially comply with Applicable Standards.  Said inspection and testing shall be 
held on a mutually agreed-upon date, and the Transmission Owner and Transmission Provider 
shall have the right to attend and observe, and to obtain the written results of, such testing.  
 
 19.2.2 Of Transmission Owner-Built Facilities.   
 
Upon the completion of the construction and installation, but prior to energization, of any Direct 
Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades constructed by the Transmission 
Owner, the Transmission Owner shall have the same inspected and/or tested by qualified 
personnel or a qualified contractor to assess whether the facilities substantially comply with 
Applicable Standards.  Subject to Applicable Laws and Regulations, said inspection and testing 
shall be held on a mutually agreed-upon date, and the New Service Customer and Transmission 
Provider shall have the right to attend and observe, and to obtain the written results of, such 
testing. 
 
19.3 Review of Inspection and Testing by Transmission Owner.   
 
In the event that the written report, or the observation of either Constructing Entity or 
Transmission Provider, of the inspection and/or testing pursuant to Section 19.2 of this Appendix 
III reasonably leads the Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner to believe that the 