[ATTACHMENT O-2 - Part 14 of 22]

Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 2 
 b) In addition to the foregoing events that trigger reliability backstop measures, if a 
near-term, i.e., later in time than the conduct of the Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year, 
transmission criteria violation caused by an announced generation resource deactivation is 
identified by the regional transmission reliability planning analysis performed by the Office of 
the Interconnection in accordance with Part V of this Tariff, the Office of the Interconnection 
will identify the necessary transmission upgrade. In accordance with such rules, such generation 
resource may remain in service until the transmission upgrade is installed.  No Reliability 
Backstop Auction will be conducted. 
 
16.4. Reliability Backstop Auction 
 
 a) Scope of Auction  
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall conduct each Reliability Backstop Auction to commit 
additional Generation Capacity Resources, or in the case of an auction triggered by section 
16.3(a)(ii), additional Base Load Generation Resources to the PJM Region to resolve the system-
wide reliability criteria violation that triggered the need for such auction.  Capacity Resources 
committed in a Reliability Backstop Auction for a Delivery Year shall not include any Planned 
Generation Capacity Resources previously committed in the Base Residual Auction for such 
Delivery Year.  The Reliability Backstop Auction shall obtain commitments of additional 
Generation Capacity Resources (or, as applicable, additional Base Load Generation Resources) 
for a term of up to fifteen (15) Delivery Years.  If a Reliability Backstop Auction is required, the 
offer period for such auction shall commence, subject to FERC approval as specified above, no 
later than four months after the Base Residual Auction in which the third consecutive Capacity 
Resource shortfall occurs. Upon verification and notification by the PJM Board of Managers that 
a Reliability Backstop Auction is required, the Office of the Interconnection shall post 
notification that a Reliability Backstop Auction is to be held.  Upon such notification, the offer 
period shall commence, and shall remain open for six (6) months.  PJMSettlement shall be the 
Counterparty to the capacity transaction resulting from committed Capacity Resources clearing 
the Reliability Backstop Auction. 
 
 b) Sell Offers 
 
Each Sell Offer shall specify the following information, as further specified in the PJM Manuals: 
 
• the minimum price in $/MW-day required by the Capacity Market Seller to 
provide additional Unforced Capacity from a Generation Capacity Resource (or 
from a Base Load Generation Resource, in the case of an auction triggered by 
section 16.3(a)(ii)) above; 
 
• the megawatts of Unforced Capacity to be provided by such resource;  
 
• the specific location of the proposed plant;  
 
• all information required from a Generation Interconnection Customer by Tariff, 
Part IV and the PJM Manuals;  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.16. RELIABILITY BACKSTOP 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 3 
• general plant technical specifications, as specified in the PJM Manuals; 
 
• the term of cost recovery (“Backstop Period”) requested, not to exceed 15 years; 
and   
 
• the first full Delivery Year for which such resource shall be available, which shall 
also be the first year of the Backstop Period. 
 
Each Generation Capacity Resource (or Base Load Generation Resource) accepted in a 
Reliability Backstop Auction shall comply with the procedures for new generation 
interconnection in Tariff, Part IV, and each such resource shall be responsible for satisfying all 
capability and deliverability requirements for Capacity Resources, pursuant to the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement.  
 
 c) Submission of Sell Offers 
 
The Sell Offer period shall begin at 00:01 Eastern Prevailing Time on the date specified by the 
Office of the Interconnection in the notification posting and shall end at 23:59 Eastern Prevailing 
Time six calendar months after such date.  Sell offers shall be submitted during such period in 
writing to the Office of the Interconnection, and shall conform to the submission procedures as 
specified in the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the Interconnection shall confirm in writing the 
receipt of each Sell Offer, within two weeks after receipt of each such offer. 
 
 d) Posting of Information by the Office of the Interconnection  
 
Upon notification by the PJM Board of Managers that a Reliability Backstop Auction will be 
conducted, the Office of the Interconnection shall post the following information: 
 
• System condition that necessitates a Reliability Backstop Auction; 
 
• Megawatt quantity of Unforced Capacity required from additional Generation 
Capacity Resources, or from additional Base Load Generation Resources;  
 
• Date by which the resources must be capable of delivering Unforced Capacity; 
 
• Any other required specifications for the additional Unforced Capacity sought 
through such auction. 
 
 e) Conduct of the Reliability Backstop Auction 
 
  i) Auction Clearing Procedure 
 
The Reliability Backstop Auction shall select the Sell Offer or combination of Sell Offers that 
that satisfies the requirements posted by the Office of the Interconnection at the lowest offer 
price(s).  If more than one Sell Offer must be selected to satisfy the specified requirements, the 
Sell Offers shall be selected in rank order from lowest offer price to highest offer price until the 
requirement is satisfied.  In the event two or more Sell Offers specify the same offer price, and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.16. RELIABILITY BACKSTOP 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 4 
fewer than all of such offers are needed to satisfy the specified requirements, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall select the Sell Offer(s) proposing Generation Capacity Resource(s), or, as 
applicable, Base Load Generation Resource(s) that will best satisfy overall reliability 
requirements for the PJM Region, as determined by the Office of the Interconnection using 
transmission reliability analysis.  
 
  ii) Market Settlement 
 
Pursuant to the agreement specified below, each Capacity Market Seller submitting a Sell Offer 
that is accepted in a Reliability Backstop Auction shall be paid by PJMSettlement the offer price 
in such Sell Offer for each MW-day in the Backstop Period, less any payments the Capacity 
Market Seller is entitled to receive pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5 as a result of 
Sell Offers submitted with respect to such Generation Capacity Resource in any Base Residual 
Auction or Incremental Auction, including, without limitation, payments of Capacity Resource 
Clearing Prices (including for Self-Supply) and Resource Make-Whole Payments; and less any 
payments the Capacity Market Seller is entitled to receive for energy or ancillary services 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1 with respect to services provided by such resource, 
net of the Variable Operations and Maintenance costs of such resource, as determined in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals.  
 
PJM shall recover the costs of any such payments to Capacity Market Sellers for such resources 
through a charge, in addition to the Locational Reliability Charge, assessed on all LSEs in the 
PJM Region, pro rata based on each such LSE’s Daily Unforced Capacity Obligations in all 
LDAs in which such LSE serves load.  PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the LSE’s 
obligation to pay, and payment of, such charges. 
 
  iii) Standard Contract Provisions 
 
PJMSettlement, will enter into an agreement with each Capacity Market Seller that submitted an 
accepted Sell Offer in any Reliability Backstop Auction providing for the payments specified 
above.  Such agreement shall include the provisions and address the standards set forth in section 
16.4(b) above, and shall include such other terms and conditions as are customary in the 
industry, as specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
 f) FERC Approval  
 
Any such agreement shall provide that it shall be filed with FERC as a rate schedule pursuant to 
section 205 of the Federal Power Act, and that the effectiveness of such agreement shall be 
conditioned on receipt of FERC acceptance or approval of such agreement. 
 
16.5 Must Offer into Base Residual Auction 
 
All Capacity Market Sellers submitting a Sell Offer that is selected in a Reliability Backstop 
Auction must offer all Unforced Capacity of the Generation Capacity Resource underlying such 
Sell Offer into the Base Residual Auctions conducted subsequent to the Reliability Backstop 
Auction for all Delivery Years in the Backstop Period.  The Market Seller shall offer the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.16. RELIABILITY BACKSTOP 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 5 
Unforced Capacity of such resources into each such auction at zero price, and shall receive the 
Capacity Resource Clearing Price as determined in each such auction. 
 
16.6 Reliability Backstop Resource Deficiency Charges 
 
 (a) Any Capacity Market Seller that submits a Sell Offer that was selected in a 
Reliability Backstop Auction and that is not able to deliver in a Delivery Year all megawatts of 
Unforced Capacity specified in the selected Sell Offer, shall not receive any payments that such 
Capacity Market Seller otherwise would have been eligible to receive for such Delivery Year 
pursuant to the Reliability Backstop Auction. 
 
 (b) Any Capacity Market Seller that submits a Sell Offer that was selected in a 
Reliability Backstop Auction and that fails to deliver all megawatts of Unforced Capacity 
specified in the selected Sell Offer at any time during the Backstop Period specified in such Sell 
Offer must refund all payments received by such Market Seller pursuant to section 16.4(b) 
above. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.17 [Reserved] 
Effective Date: 12/17/2012 - Docket #: ER13-149-000 - Page 1 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT DD-1 
  
Preface:  The provisions of this Attachment incorporate into the Tariff for ease of reference the 
provisions of Schedule 6 of the Reliability Assurance Agreement among Load Serving Entities 
in the PJM Region.  As a result, this Attachment will be modified, subject to FERC approval, so 
that the terms and conditions set forth herein remain consistent with the corresponding terms and 
conditions of RAA, Schedule 6.  Capitalized terms used herein that are not otherwise defined in 
Tariff, Attachment DD or elsewhere in this Tariff have the meaning set forth in the RAA. 
 
PROCEDURES FOR DEMAND RESOURCES AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
 
A. Parties can partially or wholly offset the amounts payable for the Locational 
Reliability Charge with Demand Resources that are operated under the direction of the 
Office of the Interconnection.  FRR Entities may reduce their capacity obligations with 
Demand Resources that are operated under the direction of the Office of the 
Interconnection and detailed in such entity’s FRR Capacity Plan.  Demand Resources 
qualifying under the criteria set forth below may be offered for sale or designated as Self-
Supply in the Base Residual Auction, included in an FRR Capacity Plan, or offered for 
sale in any Incremental Auction, for any Delivery Year for which such resource qualifies.  
Qualified Demand Resources generally fall in one of two categories, i.e., Guaranteed 
Load Drop or Firm Service Level, as further specified in section G below and the PJM 
Manuals.  Qualified Demand Resources may be provided by a Curtailment Service 
Provider, notwithstanding that such Curtailment Service Provider is not a Party to this 
Agreement.  Such Curtailment Service Providers must satisfy the requirements hereof 
and the PJM Manuals. 
 
1. A Party must formally notify, in accordance with the requirements of the 
PJM Manuals and section F hereof, as applicable, the Office of the 
Interconnection of the Demand Resource Registration that it is placing under the 
direction of the Office of the Interconnection.  A Party must further notify the 
Office of the Interconnection whether the Demand Resource Registration is linked 
to a Summer-Period Demand Resource or an Annual Demand Resource. 
 
2. A Demand Resource Registration must achieve its full load reduction 
within the following time period: 
 
 (a) For the 2015/2016 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery Years, a Demand 
Resource Registration must be able to fully respond to a Load Management Event 
within 30 minutes of notification from the Office of the Interconnection.  This 
default 30 minute prior notification shall apply unless a Curtailment Service Provider 
obtains an exception from the Office of the Interconnection due to physical 
operational limitations that prevent the Demand Resource Registration from 
reducing load within that timeframe.  In such case, the Curtailment Service Provider 
shall submit a request for an exception to the 30 minute prior notification requirement 
to the Office of the Interconnection, at the time the Registration Form for that 
Demand Resource Registration is submitted in accordance with Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix.  The only alternative notification times that the Office 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 2 
of Interconnection will permit, upon approval of an exception request, are 60 
minutes and 120 minutes prior to a Load Management Event.  The Curtailment 
Service Provider shall indicate in writing, in the appropriate application, that it 
seeks an exception to permit a prior notification time of 60 minutes or 120 
minutes, and the reason(s) for the requested exception.  A Curtailment Service 
Provider shall not submit a request for an exception to the default 30 minute 
notification period unless it has done its due diligence to confirm that the Demand 
Resource Registration is physically incapable of responding within that timeframe 
based on one or more of the reasons set forth below and as may be further defined 
in the PJM Manuals and has obtained detailed data and documentation to support 
this determination.    
 
In order to establish that a Demand Resource Registration is reasonably expected to 
be physically unable to reduce load in that timeframe, the Curtailment Service Provider that 
submitted the Demand Resource Registration must demonstrate that:  
 
(i) The manufacturing processes for the Demand Resource Registration require 
gradual reduction to avoid damaging major industrial equipment used in the 
manufacturing process, or damage to the product generated or feedstock used in the 
manufacturing process;  
 
(ii) Transfer of load to back-up generation requires time-intensive manual process 
taking more than 30 minutes;  
 
(iii) On-site safety concerns prevent location from implementing reduction plan in 
less than 30 minutes; or, 
 
(iv) The Demand Resource Registration is comprised of mass market residential 
customers or Small Commercial Customers which collectively cannot be notified of a 
Load Management Event within a 30-minute timeframe due to unavoidable 
communications latency, in which case the requested notification time shall be no 
longer than 120 minutes.  
 
The Office of the Interconnection may request data and documentation from the 
Curtailment Service Provider and such Curtailment Service Provider shall provide to the Office 
of the Interconnection within three (3) Business Days of a request therefor, a copy of all of the data 
and documentation supporting the exception request. Failure to provide a timely response to such 
request shall cause the exception to terminate the following Operating Day. 
 
At its sole option and discretion, the Office of the Interconnection may review the data 
and documentation provided by the Curtailment Service Provider to determine if the Demand 
Resource Registration has met one or more of the criteria above.  The Office of the 
Interconnection will notify the Curtailment Service Provider in writing of its determination by no 
later than ten (10) Business Days after receipt of the data and documentation.   
 
The Curtailment Service Provider shall provide written notification to the Office of the 
Interconnection of a material change to the facts that supported its exception request within three 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 3 
(3) Business Days of becoming aware of such material change in facts, and, if the Office of 
Interconnection determines that the physical limitation criteria above are no longer being met, 
the Demand Resource Registration shall be subject to the default notification period of 30 
minutes  immediately upon such determination. 
 
3. The initiation of load reduction, upon the request of the Office of the 
Interconnection, must be within the authority of the dispatchers of the Party.  No 
additional approvals should be required. 
 
4. The initiation of load reduction upon the request of the Office of the 
Interconnection is considered a pre-emergency or emergency action and must be 
implementable prior to a voltage reduction. 
 
5. A Curtailment Service Provider intending to offer for sale or designate for self-
supply, a Demand Resource in any RPM Auction, or intending to include a Demand 
Resource in any FRR Capacity Plan must demonstrate, to PJM’s satisfaction, that such 
resource shall have the capability to provide a reduction in demand, or otherwise control 
load, on or before the start of the Delivery Year for which such resource is committed.  
As part of such demonstration, each such Curtailment Service Provider shall submit a 
Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan in accordance with the standards and procedures set 
forth in RAA, Schedule 6, section A-1; RAA, Schedule 8.1 (as to FRR Capacity Plans) 
and the PJM Manuals, no later than 30 days prior to, as applicable, the RPM Auction in 
which such resource is to be offered, or the deadline for submission of the FRR Capacity 
Plan in which such resource is to be included.  PJM may verify the Curtailment Service 
Provider’s adherence to the Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan at any time.  A 
Curtailment Service Provider with a PJM-approved Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan 
will be permitted to offer up to the approved Demand Resource quantity into the subject 
RPM Auction or include such resource in its FRR Capacity Plan. 
 
6. Selection of a Demand Resource in an RPM Auction results in commitment of 
capacity to the PJM Region.  Demand Resources that are so committed must be linked to 
registrations participating in the Full Program Option or Capacity Only Option of the 
Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program and thus 
available for dispatch during PJM-declared pre-emergency events and emergency events.  
 
A-1. A Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan shall consist of a completed template 
document in the form posted on the PJM website, requiring the information set forth 
below and in the PJM Manuals, and a Demand Resource Officer Certification Form 
signed by an officer of the Demand Resource Provider that is duly authorized to provide 
such a certification.  The Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan must provide information that 
supports the Demand Resource Provider’s intended Demand Resource Sell Offers and 
demonstrates that the Demand Resources are being offered with the intention that the 
MW quantity that clears the auction is reasonably expected to be physically delivered 
through Demand Resource registrations for the relevant Delivery Year.  The Demand 
Resource Sell Offer Plan shall include all Existing Demand Resources and all Planned 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 4 
Demand Resources that the Demand Resource Provider intends to offer into an RPM 
Auction or include in an FRR Capacity Plan. 
 
1.  Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan Template.  The Demand Resource Sell 
Offer Plan template, in the form provided on the PJM website, shall require the 
Demand Resource Provider to provide the following information and such other 
information as specified in the PJM Manuals:    
 
(a) Summary Information. The completed template shall include the 
Demand Resource Provider’s company name, contact information, and the 
Nominated DR Value in ICAP MWs by Zone/sub-Zone that the Demand 
Resource Provider intends to offer, stated separately for Existing Demand 
Resources and Planned Demand Resources.  The total Nominated DR 
Value in MWs for each Zone/sub-Zone shall be the sum of the Nominated 
DR Value of Existing Demand Resources and the Nominated DR Value of 
Planned Demand Resources, and shall be the maximum MW amount the 
Provider intends to offer in the RPM Auction for the indicated Zone/sub-
Zone, provided that nothing herein shall preclude the Demand Resource 
Provider from offering in the auction a lesser amount than the total 
Nominated DR Value shown in its Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan. 
 
(b) Existing Demand Resources.  The Demand Resource Provider 
shall identify all Existing Demand Resources by identifying end-use 
customer sites that are currently registered with PJM (even if not 
registered by such Demand Resource Provider) and that the Demand 
Resource Provider reasonably expects to have under a contract to reduce 
load based on PJM dispatch instructions by the start of the auction 
Delivery Year.   
 
(c) Planned Demand Resources.  The Demand Resource Provider shall 
provide the details of, and key assumptions underlying, the Planned 
Demand Resource quantities (i.e., all Demand Resource quantities in 
excess of Existing Demand Resource quantities) contained in the Demand 
Resource Sell Offer Plan, including: 
 
(i) key program attributes and assumptions used to develop the 
Planned Demand Resource quantities, including, but not limited to, 
discussion of:  
● method(s) of achieving load reduction at customer site(s);  
● equipment to be controlled or installed at customer site(s), 
if any;  
● plan and ability to acquire customers;  
● types of customer targeted;  
● support of market potential and market share for the target 
customer base, with adjustments for Existing Demand 
Resource customers within this market and the potential for 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 5 
other Demand Resource Providers targeting the same 
customers; and 
● assumptions regarding regulatory approval of program(s), 
if applicable. 
 (ii) Zone/sub-Zone information by end-use customer segment for all 
Nominated DR Values for which an end-use customer site is not 
identified, to include the number in each segment of end-use customers 
expected to be registered for the subject Delivery Year, the average Peak 
Load Contribution per end-use customer for such segment, and the 
average Nominated DR Value per customer for such segment.  End-use 
customer segments may include residential, commercial, small industrial, 
medium industrial, and large industrial, as identified and defined in the 
PJM Manuals, provided that nothing herein or in the Manuals shall 
preclude the Provider from identifying more specific customer segments 
within the commercial and industrial categories, if known.   
 
(iii) Information by end-use customer site to the extent required by 
subsection A-1(1)(c)(iv) or, if not required by such subsection, to the 
extent known at the time of the submittal of the Demand Resource Sell 
Offer Plan, to include: customer EDC account number (if known), 
customer name, customer premise address, Zone/sub-Zone in which the 
customer is located, end-use customer segment, current Peak Load 
Contribution value (or an estimate if actual value not known) and an 
estimate of expected Peak Load Contribution for the subject Delivery 
Year, and an estimated Nominated DR Value.   
 
(iv) End-use customer site-specific information shall be required for 
any Zones or sub-Zones identified by PJM pursuant to this subsection for 
the portion, if any, of a Demand Resource Provider’s intended offer in 
such Zones or sub-Zones that exceeds a Sell Offer threshold determined 
pursuant to this subsection, as any such excess quantity under such 
conditions should reflect Planned Demand Resources from end-use 
customer sites that the Provider has a high degree of certainty it will 
physically deliver for the subject Delivery Year.  In accordance with the 
procedures in subsection A-1(3) below, PJM shall identify, as requiring 
site-specific information, all Zones and sub-Zones that comprise any LDA 
group (from a list of LDA groups stated in the PJM Manuals) in which 
[the quantity of cleared Demand Resources from the most recent Base 
Residual Auction] plus [the quantity of Demand Resources included in 
FRR Capacity Plans for the Delivery Year addressed by the most recent 
Base Residual Auction] in any Zone or sub-Zone of such LDA group 
exceeds the greater of: 
   
● the maximum Demand Resources quantity registered with 
PJM  for such Zone for any Delivery Year from the current 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 6 
(at time of plan submission) Delivery Year and the two 
preceding Delivery Years; and 
  
● the potential Demand Resource quantity for such Zone 
estimated by PJM based on an independent published 
assessment of demand response potential that is reasonably 
applicable to such Zone, as identified in the PJM Manuals.  
 
For each such Zone and sub-Zone, the Sell Offer threshold for each 
Demand Resource Provider shall be the higher of: 
 
● the Demand Resource Provider’s maximum Demand 
Resource quantity registered with PJM for such Zone/sub-
Zone over the current Delivery Year (at the time of plan 
submission) and two preceding Delivery Years; 
 
● the Demand Resource Provider’s maximum for any single 
Delivery Year of [such provider’s cleared Demand 
Resource quantity] plus [such provider’s quantity of 
Demand Resources included in FRR Capacity Plans] from 
the three forward Delivery Years addressed by the three 
most recent Base Residual Auctions for such Zone/sub-
Zone; and 
 
● 10 MW. 
 
(d) Schedule.  The Demand Resource Provider shall provide an 
approximate timeline for procuring end-use customer sites as needed to 
physically deliver the total Nominated DR Value (for both Existing 
Demand Resources and Planned Demand Resources) by Zone/sub-Zone in 
the Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan.  The Demand Resource Provider 
must specify the cumulative number of customers and the cumulative 
Nominated DR Value associated with each end-use customer segment 
within each Zone/sub-Zone that the Demand Resource Provider expects 
(at the time of plan submission) to have under contract as of June 1 each 
year between the time of the auction and the subject Delivery Year. 
 
2.  Demand Resource Officer Certification Form.  Each Demand Resource Sell 
Offer Plan must include a Demand Resource Officer Certification, signed by an 
officer of the Demand Resource Provider that is duly authorized to provide such a 
certification, in the form shown in the PJM Manuals, which form shall include the 
following certifications: 
 
(a) that the signing officer has reviewed the Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan and 
the information supplied to PJM in support of the Plan is true and correct as of the 
date of the certification;  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 7 
 
(b) that the Sell Offer Plan does not include any Critical Natural Gas 
Infrastructure facilities, and 
 
(c) that the Demand Resource Provider is submitting the Plan with the reasonable 
expectation, based upon its analyses as of the date of the certification, to 
physically deliver all megawatts that clear the RPM Auction through Demand 
Resource registrations by the specified Delivery Year. 
 
As set forth in the form provided in the PJM Manuals, the certification shall 
specify that it does not in any way abridge, expand, or otherwise modify the current provisions of 
the PJM Tariff, Operating Agreement and/or RAA, or the Demand Resource Provider’s rights 
and obligations thereunder, including the Demand Resource Provider’s ability to adjust capacity 
obligations through participation in PJM incremental auctions and bilateral transactions.  
 
3.  Procedures.  No later than December 1 prior to the Base Residual Auction for a 
Delivery Year, PJM shall post to the PJM website a list of Zones and sub-Zones, 
if any, for which end-use customer site-specific information shall be required 
under the conditions specified in subsection A-1(1)(c)(iv) above for all RPM 
Auctions conducted for such Delivery Year.  Once so identified, a Zone or sub-
Zone shall remain on the list for future Delivery Years until the threshold 
determined under subsection A-1(1)(c)(iv) above is not exceeded for three 
consecutive Delivery Years.  No later than 30 days prior to the RPM Auction in 
which a Demand Resource Provider intends to offer a Demand Resource, the 
Demand Resource Provider shall submit to PJM a completed Demand Resource 
Sell Offer Plan template and a Demand Resource Officer Certification Form 
signed by a duly authorized officer of the Provider.  PJM will review all 
submitted DR Sell Offer Plans.  No later than 10 Business Days prior to the 
subject RPM Auction, PJM shall notify any Demand Resource Providers that 
have identified the same end-use customer site(s) in their respective DR Sell Offer 
Plans for the same Delivery Year.  In such event, the MWs associated with such 
site(s) will not be approved for inclusion in a Sell Offer in an RPM Auction by 
any of the Demand Resource Providers, unless a Demand Resource Provider 
provides a letter of support from the end-use customer indicating that it is likely to 
execute a contract with that Demand Resource Provider for the relevant Delivery 
Year, or provides other comparable evidence of likely commitment.  Such letter 
of support or other supporting evidence must be provided to PJM no later than 7 
Business Days prior to the subject RPM Auction.  If an end-use customer 
provides letters of support for the same site for the same Delivery Year to 
multiple Demand Resource Providers, the MWs associated with such end-use 
customer site shall not be approved as a Demand Resource for any of the Demand 
Resource Providers.  No later than 5 Business Days prior to the subject RPM 
Auction, PJM will notify each Demand Resource Provider of the approved 
Demand Resource quantity, by Zone/sub-Zone, that such Demand Resource 
Provider is permitted to offer into such RPM Auction. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 8 
B. The Unforced Capacity value of a Demand Resource will be determined as: 
 
(1) for Delivery Years through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year,  as the product of the 
Nominated Value of the Demand Resource times the Forecast Pool Requirement.  
Nominated Values shall be determined and reviewed in accordance with sections I and J, 
respectively, and the PJM Manuals.   
 
(2) for the 2025/2026 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery Years, in accordance with 
RAA, Schedule 9.2. Nominated Values shall be determined and reviewed in accordance 
with sections I and J, respectively, and the PJM Manuals.   
 
C. Demand Resources offered and cleared in a Base Residual or Incremental Auction shall 
receive the corresponding Capacity Resource Clearing Price as determined in such 
auction, in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD.  For Delivery Years beginning with 
the Delivery Year that commences on June 1, 2013, any Demand Resources located in a 
Zone with multiple LDAs shall receive the Capacity Resource Clearing Price applicable 
to the location of such resource within such Zone, as identified in such resource’s offer.  
Further, the Curtailment Service Provider shall register its resource in the same location 
within the Zone as specified in its cleared sell offer, and shall be subject to deficiency 
charges under Tariff, Attachment DD to the extent it fails to provide the resource in such 
location consistent with its cleared offer.     
 
D. The Party, Electric Distributor, or Curtailment Service Provider that establishes a 
contractual relationship (by contract or tariff rate) with a customer for load reductions is 
entitled to receive the compensation specified in section C for a committed Demand 
Resource, notwithstanding that such provider is not the customer’s energy supplier.  
 
E. Any Party hereto shall demonstrate that its Demand Resources performed during periods 
when load management procedures were invoked by the Office of the Interconnection.  
The Office of the Interconnection shall adopt and maintain rules and procedures for 
verifying the performance of such resources, as set forth in section K hereof and the PJM 
Manuals.  In addition, committed Demand Resources that do not comply with the 
directions of the Office of the Interconnection to reduce load during an emergency shall 
be subject to the penalty charge set forth in Tariff, Attachment DD. 
 
F. Parties may elect to place Demand Resources associated with Behind The Meter 
Generation under the direction of the Office of the Interconnection for a Delivery Year by 
submitting a Sell Offer for such resource (as Self Supply, or with an offer price) in the 
Base Residual Auction for such Delivery Year.  This election shall remain in effect for 
the entirety of such Delivery Year.  In the event such an election is made, such Behind 
The Meter Generation will not be netted from load for the purposes of calculating the 
Daily Unforced Capacity Obligations under this Agreement. 
 
G. PJM measures Demand Resource Registrations in the following ways: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 9 
Firm Service Level (FSL) – Load management achieved by an end-use customer 
reducing its load to a pre-determined level (the Firm Service Level), upon notification 
from the Curtailment Service Provider’s market operations center or its agent. 
 
Guaranteed Load Drop (GLD) – Load management achieved by an end-use customer 
reducing its load by a pre-determined amount (the Guaranteed Load Drop), upon 
notification from the Curtailment Service Provider’s market operations center or its 
agent. Typically, the load reduction is achieved through running customer-owned backup 
generators, or by shutting down process equipment. 
 
H. Each Curtailment Service Provider must satisfy (or contract with another LSE, 
Curtailment Service Provider, or electric distribution company to provide) the following 
requirements: 
 
● A point of contact with appropriate backup to ensure single call notification from 
PJM and timely execution of the notification process; 
 
● Supplemental status reports, detailing Demand Resources available, as requested 
by PJM; 
 
● Entry of customer-specific Demand Resource Registration information, for 
planning and verification purposes, into the designated PJM electronic system.  
 
● Customer-specific compliance and verification information for each PJM-initiated 
Demand Resource event or test event, as well as aggregated Provider load drop data for 
Provider-initiated events, in accordance with established reporting guidelines. 
 
● Load drop estimates for all Load Management events and test events, prepared in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
I. The Nominated Values (summer or winter) for each Demand Resource Registration shall 
be determined consistent with the process described below.   
 
The summer Nominated Value for Firm Service Level customer(s) on a registration will 
be based on the peak load contribution for the customer(s), as typically determined by the 
5CP methodology utilized by the electric distribution company to determine ICAP 
obligation values.  The  summer Nominated Value  for a registration shall equal the total 
peak load contribution for the customers on the registration minus the summer Firm 
Service Level multiplied by the loss factor.  The winter Nominated Value for Firm 
Service Level customer(s) on a registration shall equal the total Winter Peak Load for 
customers on the registration multiplied by Zonal Winter Weather Adjustment Factor 
minus winter Firm Service level and then the result is multiplied by the loss factor.  
 
The summer Nominated Value for a Guaranteed Load Drop customer on a 
registrationshall equal the summer guaranteed load drop amount, adjusted for system 
losses and shall not exceed the customer’s Peak Load Contribution, as established by the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 10 
customer’s contract with the Curtailment Service Provider. The winter Nominated Value 
for a Guaranteed Load Drop customer on a registration shall be the winter guaranteed 
load drop amount, adjusted for system losses, and shall not exceed the customer’s Winter 
Peak Load multiplied by Zonal Winter Weather Adjustment Factor multiplied by the loss 
factor, as established by the customer’s contract with the Curtailment Service Provider.  
 
Customer-specific Demand Resource Registration information (EDC account number, 
peak load contribution, Winter Peak Load, notification period, etc.) will be entered into 
the designated PJM electronic system to establish nominated values.  Each Demand 
Resource Registration should be linked to a Demand Resource.  Additional data may be 
required, as defined in sections J and K and the PJM Manuals. 
 
J. Nominated Values shall be reviewed based on documentation of customer-specific data 
and Demand Resource Registration information, to verify the amount of load 
management available and to set a summer or winter Nominated Value.  Data is provided 
by both the zone EDC and the Curtailment Service Provider in the designated PJM 
electronic system, and must include the EDC meter number or other unique customer 
identifier, Peak Load Contribution (5CP), Winter Peak Load, contract firm service level 
or guaranteed load drop values, applicable loss factor, zone/area location of the load drop, 
number of active participants, etc.  Such data must be uploaded and approved prior to the 
first day of the Delivery Year for which such Demand Resource Registration is effective.  
Curtailment Service Providers must provide this information concurrently to host EDCs. 
 
For Firm Service Level and Guaranteed Load Drop customers, the 5CP values, for the 
zone and affected customers, will be adjusted to reflect an “unrestricted” peak for a zone, 
based on information provided by the Curtailment Service Provider.  Load drop levels 
shall be estimated in accordance with guidelines in the PJM Manuals. 
 
The daily Nominated Value of a Demand Resource with a Capacity Performance 
commitment (which may consist of an Annual Demand Resource with a Capacity 
Performance commitment and/or Summer Period Demand Resource with a Capacity 
Performance commitment) shall equal the sum of the summer Nominated Values of the 
registrations linked to such Demand Resource for the summer period of June through 
October and May of the Delivery Year, and shall equal the lesser of (i) the sum of the 
summer Nominated Values of the registrations linked to such Demand Resource or (ii) 
the sum of the winter Nominated Values of the registrations linked to such Demand 
Resource for the non-summer period of November through April of the Delivery Year. 
 
K. Compliance is the process utilized to review Provider performance during PJM-initiated 
Load Management events and tests. Compliance will be established for each Provider on 
an event specific basis for the Curtailment Service Provider’s Demand Resource 
Registrations dispatched by the Office of the Interconnection during such event.  PJM 
will establish and communicate reasonable deadlines for the timely submittal of event 
data to expedite compliance reviews.  Compliance reviews will be completed as soon 
after the event as possible, with the expectation that reviews of a single event will be 
completed within two months of the end of the month in which the event took place.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 11 
Curtailment Service Providers are responsible for the submittal of compliance 
information to PJM for each PJM-initiated event and test during the compliance period.   
 
Compliance is measured for Market Participant Bonus Performance, as applicable, and 
Non-Performance Charges.  Non-Performance Charges are assessed for the defined 
obligation period of each Demand Resource as defined in RAA, Article 1, subject to the 
following requirements:   
 
Compliance is checked on an individual customer basis for Firm Service Level, by 
comparing actual load during the event to the firm service level.  Current load for a 
statistical sample of end-use customers may be used for compliance for residential non-
interval metered registrations in accordance with the PJM Manuals and subject to PJM 
approval. Curtailment Service Providers must submit actual customer load levels (for the 
event period) for the compliance report.  Compliance for FSL will be based on: 
 
Summer (June through October and the following May of a Delivery Year)- End 
use customer’s current Delivery Year peak load contribution (“PLC”) minus the 
metered load (“Load”) multiplied by the loss factor (“LF”). The calculation is 
represented by: 
 
(PLC) - (Load *LF) 
 
Winter (November through April of a Delivery Year)– End use customer’s Winter 
Peak Load (“WPL”) multiplied by Zonal Winter Weather Adjustment Factor 
(“ZWWAF”) multiplied by LF, minus the metered load (“Load”) multiplied by 
the LF.  The calculation is represented by: 
 
(WPL * ZWWAF * LF) – (Load * LF) 
 
 
Compliance is checked on an individual customer basis for  Guaranteed Load Drop.  
Current load for a statistical sample of end-use customers may be used for compliance for 
residential non-interval metered registrations in accordance with the PJM Manuals and 
subject to PJM approval.  Guaranteed Load Drop compliance will be based on: 
 
(i) the lesser of (a) comparison load used to best represent what the load would have 
been if PJM did not declare a Load Management Event or the CSP did not initiate 
a test as outlined in the PJM Manuals, minus the Load and then multiplied by the 
LF, or (b) For a summer event, the PLC minus the Load multiplied by the LF.  A 
summer load reduction will only be recognized for capacity compliance if the 
Load multiplied by the LF is less than the PLC.  For a non-summer event, the 
WPL multiplied the ZWWAF multiplied by LF,  minus the Load multiplied by 
the LF. A non-summer load reduction will only be recognized for capacity 
compliance if the Load multiplied by the LF is less than the WPL multiplied by 
the ZWWAF multiplied by LF. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 12 
(ii) Curtailment Service Providers must submit actual loads and comparison loads for 
all hours during the day of the Load Management Event or the Load Management 
performance test, and for all hours during any other days as required by the Office 
of the Interconnection to calculate the load reduction.  Comparison loads must be 
developed from the guidelines in the PJM Manuals, and note which method was 
employed. 
(iii) Methodologies for establishing comparison load for Guaranteed Load Drop end-
use customers are described in greater detail in Manual M-19, PJM Manual for 
Load Forecasting and Analysis, at Attachment A: Load Drop Estimate Guidelines. 
 
Load reduction compliance is determined on an hourly basis for a Demand Resource 
Registration linked to an Annual Demand Resource with a Capacity Performance 
commitment, for each FSL and GLD customer dispatched by the Office of the 
Interconnection for at least 30 minutes of the clock hour (i.e., “partial dispatch 
compliance hour”).  Curtailment Service Provider may submit 1 minute load data for use 
in capacity compliance calculations for partial dispatch compliance hours subject to PJM 
approval and in accordance with the PJM Manuals where: (a) metering meets all Tariff 
and Manual requirements, (b) 1 minute load data shall be submitted to PJM for all 
locations on the registration, and (c) 1 minute load data measures energy consumption 
over the minute. The registered capacity commitment for a Demand Resource 
Registration with a Capacity Performance commitment is not prorated based on the 
number of minutes dispatched during the clock hours.  The actual hourly load reduction 
for the hour ending that includes a Performance Assessment Interval(s) is flat-profiled 
over the set of dispatch intervals in the hour in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
A Demand Resource Registration may not reduce their load below zero (i.e., export 
energy into the system). No compliance credit will be given for an incremental load drop 
below zero.   
 
For a Performance Assessment Interval, compliance will be totaled over all dispatched 
registrations for FSL and GLD customers linked to a Provider’s Annual Demand 
Resource with a Capacity Performance commitment to determine the Actual Performance 
for such Demand Resource in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 10A, and 
PJM Manuals.  The Expected Performance for such Demand Resource shall be equal to 
the Provider’s committed capacity on the Demand Resource, adjusted to account for any 
linked registrations that were not dispatched by PJM.  A Provider’s Demand Resources’ 
initial Performance Shortfalls  shall be netted for all the seller’s Demand Resources in the 
Emergency Action Area to determine a net Emergency Action Area Performance 
Shortfall which is then allocated to the Capacity Market Seller’s Demand Resources in 
accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 10A, and PJM Manuals. 
 
L. Energy Efficiency Resources – all provisions in RAA, Schedule 6, section L and Tariff, 
Attachment DD-1, section L shall be effective only through the 2025/2026 Delivery 
Year. Thereafter, no Energy Efficiency Resources shall qualify to be offered into the 
RPM Auctions beginning with the 2026/2027 Delivery Year. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 13 
1. An Energy Efficiency Resource is a project, including installation of more 
efficient devices or equipment or implementation of more efficient processes or 
systems, exceeding then-current building codes, appliance standards, or other 
relevant standards, designed to achieve a continuous (during peak summer and 
winter periods as described herein) reduction in electric energy consumption at 
the end-use customer’s retail site that is not reflected in the peak load forecast 
prepared for the Delivery Year for which the Energy Efficiency Resource is 
proposed, and that is fully implemented at all times during such Delivery Year, 
without any requirement of notice, dispatch, or operator intervention. 
 
2. An Energy Efficiency Resource may be offered as a Capacity Resource in the 
Base Residual or Incremental Auctions for any Delivery Year beginning on or 
after June 1, 2011.  No later than 30 days prior to the auction in which the 
resource is to be offered, the Capacity Market Seller shall submit to the Office of 
the Interconnection a notice of intent to offer the resource into such auction and a 
measurement and verification plan.  The notice of intent shall include all pertinent 
project design data, including but not limited to the peak-load contribution of 
affected customers, a full description of the equipment, device, system or process 
intended to achieve the load reduction, the load reduction pattern, the project 
location, the project development timeline, and any other relevant data. Such 
notice also shall state the seller’s proposed Nominated Energy Efficiency Value. 
   
 
• For the 2018/2019 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery Years and for any 
Annual Energy Efficiency Resource committed as a Capacity Performance 
Resource, the seller’s proposed Nominated Energy Efficiency Value for any 
Annual Energy Efficiency Resources, shall be the expected average load 
reduction, for all days from June 1 through August 31, inclusive, of such 
Delivery Year that is not a weekend or federal holiday, between the hour 
ending 15:00 EPT and the hour ending 18:00 EPT.  In addition, the expected 
average load reduction for all days from January 1 through February 28, 
inclusive, of such Delivery Year that is not a weekend or federal holiday, 
between the hour ending 8:00 EPT and the hour ending 9:00 EPT and between 
the hour ending 19:00 EPT and the hour ending 20:00 EPT shall not be less 
than the Nominated Energy Efficiency Value; and 
 
• For the 2020/2021 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery Years, the seller’s 
proposed Nominated Energy Efficiency Value for any Summer-Period Energy 
Efficiency Resource shall be the expected average load reduction between the 
hour ending 15:00 EPT and the hour ending 18:00 EPT during all days from 
June 1 through August 31, inclusive, of such Delivery Year that is not a 
weekend or federal holiday. 
 
The measurement and verification plan shall describe the methods and 
procedures, consistent with the PJM Manuals, for determining the amount of 
the load reduction and confirming that such reduction is achieved.  The Office 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 14 
of the Interconnection shall determine, upon review of such notice, the 
Nominated Energy Efficiency Value that may be offered in the Reliability 
Pricing Model Auction. 
 
3. An Energy Efficiency Resource may be offered with a price offer or as Self-
Supply.  If an Energy Efficiency Resource clears the auction, it shall receive the 
applicable Capacity Resource Clearing Price, subject to section 5 below.  A 
Capacity Market Seller offering an Energy Efficiency Resource must comply with 
all applicable credit requirements as set forth in Tariff, Attachment Q.  The 
Unforced Capacity value of an Energy Efficiency Resource offered into an RPM 
Auction or committed in a FRR Capacity Plan shall be the Nominated Energy 
Efficiency Value times the Forecast Pool Requirement. 
 
4. An Energy Efficiency Resource that clears an auction for a Delivery Year may be 
offered in auctions for up to three additional consecutive Delivery Years, but shall 
not be assured of clearing in any such auction; provided, however, an Energy 
Efficiency Resource may not be offered for any Delivery Year in which any part 
of the peak season is beyond the expected life of the equipment, device, system, 
or process providing the expected load reduction; and provided further that a 
Capacity Market Seller that offers and clears an Energy Efficiency Resource in a 
BRA may elect a New Entry Price Adjustment on the same terms as set forth in 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14(c). 
 
5. For every Energy Efficiency Resource clearing an RPM Auction for a Delivery 
Year, the Capacity Market Seller shall submit to the Office of the Interconnection, 
by no later than 30 days prior to each Auction an updated project status and 
measurement and verification plan subject to the criteria set forth in the PJM 
Manuals.  
 
6. For every Energy Efficiency Resource clearing an RPM Auction for a Delivery 
Year, the Capacity Market Seller shall submit to the Office of the Interconnection, 
by no later than the start of such Delivery Year, an updated project status and 
detailed measurement and verification data meeting the standards for precision 
and accuracy set forth in the PJM Manuals.  The final value of the Energy 
Efficiency Resource during such Delivery Year shall be as determined by the 
Office of the Interconnection based on the submitted data.   
 
7. The Office of the Interconnection may audit, at the Capacity Market Seller’s 
expense, any Energy Efficiency Resource committed to the PJM Region.  The 
audit may be conducted any time including the Performance Hours of the 
Delivery Year. 
 
8.   For RPM Auctions for the 2021/2022 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery 
Years, if a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority receives FERC 
authorization to qualify or prohibit Energy Efficiency Resource participation in a 
specific area(s) of the PJM Region, the following process applies: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 15 
(a)  The Office of the Interconnection will publicly post a reference to the 
FERC authorization of a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority order, 
ordinance or resolution that qualifies or prohibits Energy Efficiency Resource 
participation, the applicable electric distribution company(ies), and the applicable 
auction(s) and/or Delivery Year(s). 
(b)  A Capacity Market Seller that intends to offer or certify Energy Efficiency 
Resources must identify and itemize all resources that are located in the 
jurisdiction of a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority authorized by 
FERC to qualify or prohibit Energy Efficiency Resource participation within the 
Zone or LDA, as required, and those outside of the area but within the Zone or 
LDA, as required. 
(c)  A Capacity Market Seller that intends to offer or certify Energy Efficiency 
Resources must identify and itemize all Energy Efficiency Resources to be 
offered as part of its Energy Efficiency  measurement and verification plan and 
certified post-installation measurement and verification report. The Office of 
Interconnection will provide a list to the relevant electric distribution company for 
the specific area(s) to review for compliance with the Relevant Electric Retail 
Regulatory Authority of Capacity Market Sellers that are: 
(i) offering Energy Efficiency Resources in an RPM Auction within 
two (2) Business Days after the deadline for submitting an energy 
efficiency measurement and verification plan for such RPM 
Auction; and 
(ii)  certifying Energy Efficiency Resources with a Delivery Year post-
installation measurement and verification report, within two (2) 
Business Days of receipt of such Delivery Year post-installation 
measurement and verification report.The relevant electric 
distribution company for the specific area(s) shall review for 
compliance with rules from a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory 
Authority authorized by FERC to qualify or prohibit Energy 
Efficiency Resource. 
 
(d) The relevant electric distribution company for the specific area(s) shall 
review for compliance with rules from a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory 
Authority authorized by FERC to qualify or prohibit Energy Efficiency Resource 
participation and provide a response to the Office of the Interconnection within 
five (5) Business Days after receiving the list of Capacity Market Sellers offering 
Energy Efficiency Resources. The Office of the Interconnection will not allow a 
Capacity Market Seller to offer or certify Energy Efficiency Resources if an 
electric distribution company denies such Capacity Market Seller to deliver 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 16 
Energy Efficiency Resources in compliance with rules of a Relevant Electric 
Retail Regulatory Authority authorized by FERC to qualify or prohibit Energy 
Efficiency Resource participation.  
(9)  For RPM Auctions for the 2021/2022 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery 
Years, a Capacity Market Seller of Energy Efficiency Resources that cannot 
satisfy its RPM obligations in any Delivery Year due to the prohibition of 
participation by a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority authorized by 
FERC to prohibit participation of such resources may be relieved of its Capacity 
Resource Deficiency Charge by notifying the Office of the Interconnection by no 
later than seven (7) calendar days prior to the posting of the planning parameters 
for the Third Incremental Auction of that Delivery Year. After providing such 
notice, the affected Capacity Market Seller may elect to be relieved of its RPM 
commitment, and shall not be required to obtain replacement capacity for the 
resource, and no charges shall be assessed by the Office of the Interconnection for 
the Capacity Market Seller’s deficiency in satisfying its RPM obligation for the 
resource for such Delivery Year. In such case, however, the Capacity Market 
Seller shall not be entitled to, nor be paid, any RPM revenues for such resource 
for that Delivery Year. The Office of the Interconnection will apply 
corresponding adjustments to the quantity of Buy Bids or Sell Offers in the 
Incremental Auctions for such Delivery Years in accordance with Tariff, 
Attachment DD, sections 5.12(b)(ii) and 5.12(b)(iii). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-2 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT DD-2 
PROCEDURES FOR PEAK SHAVING ADJUSTMENT 
As detailed in Manual 19, the Office of the Interconnection will develop a load forecast 
adjustment to capture the impact of Peak Shaving Adjustments. The requirements to participate 
in the Peak Shaving Adjustment program are provided in this Attachment DD-2. 
A. Peak Shaving Adjustment Plan. A Peak Shaving Adjustment plan shall be submitted to 
the Office of the Interconnection no later than 10 Business Days prior to September 30 to 
be effective for the next PJM load forecast update. For the 2019 load forecast, the Peak 
Shaving Adjustment plan shall be submitted to PJM by February 1, 2019.  The Peak 
Shaving Adjustment plan shall include the following information: 
 
(1) Company name; 
(2) Company contact information; 
(3) Expected peak shaving value in MWs by Zone; 
(4) Copy of tariff or order demonstrating approval of Peak Shaving Adjustment program 
by the Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority; 
(5)  The applicable Delivery Year and Base Residual Auction or Incremental Auction for 
which the plan applies; and 
(6)  Officer certification confirming the veracity of the Peak Shaving Adjustment plan 
and that the MW quantity is reasonably expected to be physically delivered through 
customer registrations for the relevant summer period. 
 
A total peak shaving value in MWs will be calculated by the Office of the 
Interconnection for each Zone as the addition of the peak shaving value of existing peak shaving 
plus the peak shaving value of planned peak shaving. The total peak shaving value represents the 
maximum MW amount that the Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator intends to offer 
for the Zone. 
 
B. Peak Shaving Plan Details. 
 
 (1) Description and Key Assumptions of Peak Shaving Adjustment Program. The 
Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall describe the program(s) to be employed to 
achieve the peak shaving value indicated on the Peak Shaving Adjustment plan. The Peak 
Shaving Adjustment plan shall describe key program attributes and assumptions used to develop 
the peak shaving value.  Specifically, the description shall include, but is not limited to:  
(a) Method(s) of achieving load reduction at customer site(s); 
(b) Equipment to be controlled or installed at customer site(s), if any; 
(c) Plan and ability to acquire customers; 
(d) Types of targeted customers;  
(e) Support of market potential and market share for the target customer base, with 
adjustments for existing peak shaving customers within this market and the potential 
for CSPs targeting the same customers; 
(f) Evidence to support regulatory approval that the Peak Shaving Adjustment 
program(s) will be in place as of the relevant Delivery Year, if applicable; and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-2 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 2 
(g) If offering a Legacy Direct Load Control (LDLC) program, the following additional 
LDLC program details shall be provided: 
 
• Description of the cycling control strategy;  
• A list of all load research studies (with study dates) used to develop the 
estimated nominated ICAP value (kW) per customer (i.e., the per-participant 
impact). A copy of all studies shall be provided with the Peak Shaving 
Adjustment plan. If the LDLC program employs a radio signal, the Peak Shaving 
Adjustment program administrator may elect to either submit a load research 
study to support the estimated nominated ICAP value per customer or utilize the 
per participant impacts contained in the “Deemed Savings Estimates for Legacy 
Air Conditioning and Water Heating Direct Load Control Programs in the PJM 
Region” Report; and 
• Assumptions regarding switch operability rate (%). 
(2) Peak Shaving Value by end-use customer Site. The Peak Shaving Adjustment 
program administrator shall provide the following information when the end-use customer is 
known at the time of the submittal of the Peak Shaving Adjustment Plan. This section shall also 
be completed for peak shaving quantities identified in the Peak Shaving Adjustment plan as 
requiring site-specific information, since this identified quantity should reflect planned peak 
shaving associated with specific end-use customer sites for which the Peak Shaving Adjustment 
program administrator has a high degree of certainty that it will physically deliver for the 
relevant summer period. The Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall provide the 
following information: 
 
(a) Customer EDC account number (if known); 
(b) Customer name; 
(c) Customer premise address; 
(d) Zone; 
(e) Customer segment; 
(f) Actual value (if known) or estimate of current PLC and estimate of expected PLC in 
kW; and 
(g) Estimated peak shaving value in kW. 
 
In the event that Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrators identify the same end-
use customer site, the MWs associated with such site will not be approved for offering into the 
RPM auction or inclusion in the peak shaving adjustment by any of the Peak Shaving 
Adjustment program administrators, unless it can be supported by evidence, such as a letter of 
support from the end-use customer indicating that they have been in contact with the Peak 
Shaving Adjustment program administrator and are likely to execute a contract with that Peak 
Shaving Adjustment program administrator for the relevant summer period. In the event that 
multiple letters of support indicating different Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrators 
are provided from the end use customer, the MWs associated with the end-use customer site will 
not be approved for inclusion in the load forecast by any of the Peak Shaving Adjustment 
program administrators.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-2 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 3 
 (3) Planned Peak Shaving Value by Customer Segment. For those planned peak shaving 
values for which an end-use customer site is not identified in this section B(2) of the Peak 
Shaving Adjustment plan details, the Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall 
identify the planned peak shaving values by Zone and by end-use customer segment. end-use 
customer segments include residential, commercial, small industrial (less than 3 MW), medium 
industrial (between 3 MW and 10 MW) and large industrial (greater than 10 MW). If known, the 
Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator may identify more specific customer segments 
within the commercial and industrial category. The Peak Shaving Adjustment program 
administrator shall provide estimates of the following information by Zone and by end-use 
customer segment: 
(a) Number of end-use customer to be registered for each summer period; 
(b) Average Peak Load Contribution (PLC) per end-use customer in kW; and 
(c) Average peak shaving value per customer in kW. 
 
Based on the above provided information, a total peak shaving value in MW will be 
calculated for each end-use customer segment and for each Zone. The total peak shaving value 
identified by customer segment and aggregated for each Zone of the Peak Shaving Plan details 
plus the total peak shaving values identified by end-use customer site(s) and aggregated for each 
Zone of the Peak Shaving Plan details shall equal the total peak shaving value for each Zone as 
identified in the Peak Shaving Adjustment plan. 
C. Peak Shaving Adjustment Program Details.  The Peak Shaving Adjustment program 
administrator shall provide a brief description of each submitted program, the 
temperature heat index (THI) threshold at which Peak Shaving Adjustment program shall 
be operated, the hours over which the program will operate once triggered, the total peak 
shaving value (consistent with the Peak Shaving Plan Details), and a table of program 
impacts over a range of hours and THI, showing the impact for the hour/THI combination 
as a percentage of the total peak shaving value. 
 
D. Historic Program Impacts. The Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall 
provide estimated hourly load impacts for each Peak Shaving Adjustment program for 
every implementation back to January 1, 1998. 
 
E. Schedule. The Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall provide an 
approximate timeline for procuring end-use customer sites in order to physically deliver 
the total peak shaving value (existing and planned peak shaving) by Zone in the Peak 
Shaving Adjustment plan. For each Zone and for each customer segment, the Peak 
Shaving Adjustment program administrator shall specify the cumulative number of 
customers and the cumulative peak shaving value associated with that group of customers 
that the Peak Shaving Adjustment program administrator expects to have under contract 
by the beginning of each of the summer periods in the PJM load forecast horizon. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> ATTACHMENT DD-3 
Effective Date: 9/28/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2582-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT DD-3 
 
State policies or programs accepted as Conditioned State Support and subject to the Minimum 
Offer Price Rule, specified in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14(h-2), are as follows:  
 
[reserved] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT EE 
Effective Date: 4/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-750-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT EE 
 
Form of 
 
Upgrade Request 
 
[To be completed by Upgrade Customers]: 
 
1. The undersigned Upgrade Customer submits this Upgrade Request pursuant to Section 
7.8 of Schedule 1 of the Operating Agreement and Part VI of the PJM Tariff.2. This 
Upgrade Request is for Incremental Auction Revenue Rights in accordance with the 
specifications: 
  
 Source location: ______ 
 
Sink location:  ______ 
 
MW:  ______ 
 
 Desired Commencement Date:  _________________________________ 
 
[To be completed by Interconnection Customers requesting Merchant Network Upgrades]: 
 
1. The undersigned Interconnection Customer submits this Upgrade Request for Merchant 
Network Upgrades pursuant to Parts IV and VI of the PJM Tariff. 
 
2. This request is for the required Merchant Network Upgrades to increase the ____normal 
_____emergency rating of the __________________circuit (or other Transmission 
System element) by ______MVA or ________MW. 
 
 Desired In-Service Date:  _______________ 
 
 OR 
 
 This request is to advance construction of Regional Transmission Expansion Plan project 
number ______ from _______________ (planned date) to ____________ (requested 
date). 
 
3. The Interconnection Customer shall provide a refundable deposit in the amount of 
$50,000 to Transmission Provider with this request, which deposit shall be applied 
against the New Service Customer’s cost responsibility for a System Impact Study 
including this request. 
 
4. The Upgrade Customer shall provide a refundable deposit in the amount of $20,000 to 
Transmission Provider with this request, which deposit shall be applied against the New 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT EE 
Effective Date: 4/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-750-000 - Page 2 
Service Customer’s cost responsibility for an Upgrade Feasibility Study including this 
request. 
 
5. Representative of New Service Customer to contact: 
 
 ______________________________ 
 ______________________________ 
 ______________________________ 
 ______________________________ 
 
6. This Upgrade Request is submitted by: 
 
 Name of New Service Customer: ____________________________________________ 
 
 By (signature): ___________________________________________________________ 
 
 Name (type or print):  _____________________________________________________ 
 
 Title:  __________________________________________________________________ 
 
 Date:  _________________ 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT FF [Reserved] 
Effective Date: 4/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-750-000 - Page 1 
[RESERVED] 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG - FORM OF UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AG 
Effective Date: 5/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-757-001 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT GG 
 
FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT 
By and Among 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
And 
 [Name of Eligible Customer, Upgrade Customer, or Interconnection Customer proposing 
Merchant Network Upgrades] 
And 
[Name of Interconnected Transmission Owner] 
(PJM Queue Position #___) 
 
This Upgrade Construction Service Agreement, including the Appendices attached hereto and 
incorporated herein (collectively, “Upgrade CSA”) is made and entered into as of the Effective 
Date (as defined in the attached Appendix III) by and among PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
(“Transmission Provider” or “PJM”), ___________________ (“New Service Customer” 
[OPTIONAL:  or “[short name]”]) and ___________________________ (“Transmission 
Owner” [OPTIONAL:  or “[short name]”]).  Transmission Provider, New Service Customer and 
Transmission Owner are referred to herein individually as “Party” and collectively as “the 
Parties.” 
 
WITNESSETH 
 
 WHEREAS, New Service Customer has requested (1) Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service or Network Integration Transmission Service (“Transmission Service”) 
from Transmission Provider pursuant to Transmission Provider’s Open Access Transmission 
Tariff, designated as FERC Electric Tariff, Sixth Revised Volume No. 1 (the “PJM Tariff”); or 
(2) Incremental Auction Revenue Rights pursuant to Section 7.8 of Schedule 1 of the Operating 
Agreement of PJM Interconnection L.L.C. (“Operating Agreement”) and Part VI of the PJM 
Tariff; or (3) installation of one or more Merchant Network Upgrades pursuant to Part IV and 
Part VI of the PJM Tariff;     
 
 WHEREAS, pursuant to New Service Customer’s Completed Application, Upgrade 
Request Form or Interconnection Request proposing Merchant Network Upgrades only and in 
accordance with the PJM Tariff, Transmission Provider has conducted the required studies to 
determine whether such requests can be accommodated, and if so, under what terms and 
conditions, including the identification of any Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded 
Upgrades that must be constructed in order to provide the service or rights requested by New 
Service Customer; 
 
 WHEREAS, Transmission Provider’s studies have identified the Direct Assignment 
Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades described in Appendix I of this Upgrade CSA as 
necessary to provide New Service Customer the service or rights it has requested; and 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT GG - FORM OF UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AG 
Effective Date: 5/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-757-001 - Page 2 
 WHEREAS, New Service Customer:  (i) desires that Transmission Owner construct the 
required Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades; and (ii) agrees to 
assume cost responsibility for the design, engineering, procurement and construction of such 
Direct Assignment Facilities or Customer-Funded Upgrades in accordance with the PJM Tariff. 
 
 NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, 
together with other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency is hereby 
mutually acknowledged by each Party, the Parties mutually covenant and agree as follows: 
 
Article 1 – Definitions And Other Documents 
 
1.0 Defined Terms. 
 
All capitalized terms used in this Upgrade CSA shall have the meanings ascribed to them in Part 