ATTACHMENT H-17 
 
Annual Transmission Rates – Duquesne Light Company 
For Network Integration Transmission Service 
 
1. The annual transmission revenue requirement and the rate for Network Integration 
Transmission Service are equal to the results of the formula and its associated 
attachments shown in Attachment H-17A posted on the PJM Internet site (“Formula 
Rate”) which reflects the facilities of Duquesne Light Company (“Duquesne”) within the 
Duquesne Zone rated at 69 kV and higher.  The rate determined pursuant to Attachment 
H-17A shall be implemented pursuant to the Formula Rate Implementation Protocols set 
forth in Attachment H-17B.  Service utilizing other facilities will be provided at rates 
determined on a case-by-case basis.  
 
2. The revenue requirement in (1) shall be effective until amended by Duquesne or modified 
by the Commission.  
 
3. In addition to the rate set forth in Section 1 of this Attachment, the Network Customer 
purchasing Network Integration Transmission Service shall pay for transmission 
congestion charges, in accordance with the provisions of the Tariff, and any amounts 
necessary to reimburse Duquesne for any amounts payable by it as sales, excise, “Btu,” 
carbon, value-added or similar taxes (other than taxes based upon or measured by net 
income) with respect to the amounts payable pursuant to the Tariff.  
 
4. An annual Fixed Charge Rate equal to Line 154 of the Formula Rate shall apply to the 
net transmission plant that is directly assigned to a customer taking service over 
Duquesne’s facilities rated at less than 69 kV. The revenue requirement for such facilities 
will be directly assigned to the customer based on the customer’s pro-rata share of the 
non-coincident peak loading (or maximum net output of the unit) of the facilities 
necessary to provide the service.  Such pro-rata share shall be 100% if the facility(ies) are 
used only by the customer.  
 
5. A wholesale distribution charge (WDC) shall be directly assigned to a customer taking 
wholesale distribution service over Duquesne Light’s distribution facilities.  
 
6. Pursuant to Paragraph 5 above, wholesale distribution service shall be provided to the 
customer identified below at the identified monthly/annual charge corresponding to such 
customer: 
 
Wholesale Distribution Charge 
 
The Borough of Pitcairn -  $143,028 per year  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-17A - Duquesne 
Effective Date: 5/1/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1222-002 - Page 1 
