ATTACHMENT H-13B 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS  
Section 1 Annual Updates 
a. Beginning June 1, 2008, the Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement applicable under 
Attachment H and the Network Integration Transmission Service and Point-to-Point 
charges derived therefrom shall be applicable to services on and after June 1 of a given 
calendar year through May 31 of the subsequent calendar year (the “Rate Year”). 
b. On or before May 15, 2008 and on or before May 15 of each succeeding Rate Year, 
ComEd shall recalculate its Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement, producing the 
“Annual Update” for the upcoming Rate Year, and: 
(i) post such Annual Update on PJM’s Internet website (via a link to the 
Transmission Services page or a similar successor page) as both a .pdf (Portable 
Document Format) document and a fully-functioning Excel file;  
(ii) submit such Annual Update as an informational filing with the FERC;  
(iii) provide a copy of the Annual Update to the Manager of Accounting of the Illinois 
Commerce Commission (“ICC”); and 
(v) provide contact information for inquiries concerning the Annual Update. 
c. If the date for making the Annual Update posting/filing should fall on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by the FERC, then the posting/filing shall be due on the next 
business day. 
d. The date on which the last of the events listed in Section 1.b. or 1.c. or such later date of 
the actual posting of the Transmission Provider’s Annual Update shall be that year’s 
“Publication Date.” 
e. Within two business days of the Publication Date, ComEd shall also provide notice on 
PJM's Internet website (via a link to the Transmission Services page or a similar 
successor page) of the time, date and location of an open meeting among interested 
parties (“Annual Meeting”).  This Annual Meeting shall (i) permit ComEd to explain 
and clarify its Annual Update and (ii) provide interested parties an opportunity to seek 
information and clarifications from ComEd about the Annual Update.  The Annual 
Meeting shall take place no sooner than ten (10) days after posting of the notice and 
no later than thirty (30) days after the Publication Date. 
f. Inputs to the Formula Rate are based on ComEd’s books which reflect: 
(i) the FERC’s Uniform System of Accounts, and 
(ii) applicable FERC Form No. 1 1 reporting requirements,  
 as each exists as of the later of the date of ComEd’s initial filing of the Formula Rate or 
the last day of the calendar year immediately preceding the effective date of the most 
recent revision to the Formula Rate . 
g. The Annual Update for the Rate Year: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-13B - Commonwealth Edison Company 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 2 
(i) shall, to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, be based upon ComEd’s FERC 
Form No. 1 data for the most recent calendar year, and to the extent specified in 
the Formula Rate, be based upon the books and records of ComEd consistent 
with Section 1.f. above; 
(ii) shall, as and to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, provide the formula rate 
calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting documentation for data 
not otherwise available in the FERC Form No. 1 that are used in the Formula 
Rate;2 
(iii) shall provide sufficient information 3 to enable customers to replicate the 
calculation of the formula results from FERC Form No. 1 and other applicable 
accounting inputs and to compare that calculation to that of prior years, including 
all workpapers necessary to explain any changes made since the last update, and 
to include as applicable: 
_________________________ 
1 If the referenced form is superseded, the successor form(s) shall be utilized and 
supplemented as necessary to provide equivalent information as that provided in the 
superseded form.  If the referenced form(s) is (are) discontinued, equivalent information 
as that provided in the discontinued form(s) shall be utilized. 
2 It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and 
allocations described therein, that each input to the Formula Rate will be either taken 
directly from the FERC Form No. 1 for the most recent calendar year or reconcilable to 
the FERC Form No. 1 by the application of clearly identified and supported information 
provided by ComEd with the Annual Update.  Where the reconciliation is provided 
through a worksheet included in the filed Formula Rate template, the inputs to the 
worksheet must meet this transparency standard, and doing so will satisfy this 
transparency requirement for the amounts that are output from the worksheet and input 
to the main body of the Formula Rate. 
3 As appropriate, competitively sensitive information may be provided only to those 
persons bound by the terms of a suitable confidentiality agreement or protective order. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-13B - Commonwealth Edison Company 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 3 
(1) a copy of the FERC Form No. 1 used for the update if it is not otherwise publicly 
available; 
(2) identification of any changes in the formula references to the FERC Form 
No. 1; 
(3) identification of all adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data in 
determining formula inputs, including relevant footnotes to the FERC Form No. 1 
and any adjustments not shown in a FERC Form No. 1 footnote; 
(4) a copy of the Illinois Commerce Commission Annual Report (Form No. 
21) for the same calendar year as the FERC Form No. 1 upon which the Annual 
Update is based; 
(5) a statement describing the extent to which operating revenues are subject 
to refund for the period covered by the Annual Update for each rate change filed 
with any Federal, state or other regulatory body that has jurisdiction, as well as 
copies of any orders in which applications for a rate increase have been acted on 
by any regulatory body during the period covered by the Annual Update and a 
copy of any transmittal letter or equivalent written document by which ComEd 
summarized and submitted any pending applications that have not been acted 
upon;  
(6) a reconciliation of monthly peak demands shown on the FERC Form 1 and 
monthly peak demands used in the formula in sufficient detail to enable 
transparent reconciliation of these two measures;  
(7) an itemization of each of the following accounts of the Uniform System of 
Accounts by sub-account (this does not prevent Customers from obtaining 
itemization of other accounts or other relevant information) and a description of 
each sub-account and their functionalization (e.g., as to transmission, distribution, 
customer service, other): 
i. Account 165 – prepayments, 
ii. Account 454 – Other electric revenue, 
iii. Account 456 – Transmission of Electric for Others, 
iv. Account 303 – Miscellaneous Intangible plant, 
v. Account 397 – general plant (communications equipment), 
vi. Account 105 – Land held for future use, 
vii. Account 255 – Accumulated deferred investment tax credits, 
viii. Account 450 – Forfeited discounts, and 
ix. Account 451 – Miscellaneous service revenues;   
(8) a plan specifically describing the intended use for each piece of land 
within 15 years of the rate base determination period; 
(9) a description of those factors influencing any change in the annual revenue 
requirement including an identification of any respects in which charges 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-13B - Commonwealth Edison Company 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 4 
under the formula rate materially differ from the preceding Annual Update 
(e.g. due to changes in accounting procedures, the purchase or sale of 
major assets, or other such significant changes) and identification of the 
major reason(s) for the differences, if any, between the Annual Update and 
the prior year’s Annual Update; and 
(10) any changes to the data inputs made as a result of a reconciliation made 
under Section 4, below.(iv) shall describe material changes, if any, in 
ComEd’s accounting policies, practices and procedures from those in 
effect for the calendar year upon which the immediately preceding Annual 
Update was based that could or did affect the charges under the Formula 
Rate (“Material Accounting Changes”);4 
(v) shall be subject to challenge and review only in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in this Attachment H-13B, as to the appropriateness of 
the input data, the prudence of the costs and expenditures included for recovery 
in the Annual Update, and the application of the Formula Rate according to its 
terms and the procedures in this Attachment H-13B (including terms and 
procedures related to challenges concerning Material Accounting Changes);  
(vi) is not intended to preempt, negate, or be a substitute for ComEd’s obligations 
under state law; and 
(vii) except as provided for in Section 1(j) below, shall not seek to modify the 
Formula Rate and shall not be subject to challenge by anyone for the purpose 
of modifying the Formula Rate (i.e., all such modifications to the Formula Rate 
will require, as applicable, a Federal Power Act (“FPA”) Section 205 or Section 
206 filing). 
h. Formula Rate inputs for rate of return on common equity, depreciation rates and Post-
Employment Benefits Other Than Pensions (“PBOP”) shall be stated values until 
changed pursuant to an FPA Section 205 or 206 filing made effective by the 
Commission.  An application under Section 205 or Section 206 to modify stated values 
for depreciation rates or PBOP expense under the Formula Rate or Protocols shall not 
open review of other components of the Formula Rate or Protocols. 
_________________________ 
4 Such notice may incorporate by reference applicable disclosure statements filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-13B - Commonwealth Edison Company 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 5 
The stated value for rate of return on common equity shall be as follows:  11.5% 
(which includes the 50 basis point addition permitted as a member of an RTO) for the 
equity component of the capital structure, which equity component shall be, from May 
1, 2007 through May 31, 2009, the lower of the percentage of equity under ComEd’s 
actual capital structure or 58.0%; for the period from June 1, 2009 through May 31, 2010, 
the lower of the percentage of equity under ComEd’s actual capital structure or 57%; for 
the period from June 1, 2010 through May 31, 2011, the lower of the percentage of equity 
under ComEd’s actual capital structure or 56%; and for all periods after May 31, 2011, 
the lower of the percentage of equity under ComEd’s actual capital structure or 55%.  For 
incentive rates as may be approved by FERC, the incentive for any given project shall not 
exceed 13.0% unless and until the FERC establishes a new ROE range of reasonableness 
for ComEd. 
i. Extraordinary property losses recorded in FERC Account 182.1 shall be amortized for 
Formula Rate purposes pursuant to a Section 205 or 206 filing made effective by the 
Commission. 
j. Any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 as 
described in Section 1(f) above shall be grounds for a presumption that the application of 
the Formula Rate shall be modified to restore the balance of the Formula Rate as 
accepted by the FERC (the intent being to prevent such changes in these underlying 
Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 from causing an automatic shift in the 
charges calculated under the Formula Rate without input from other interested parties).  
Any interested party seeking changes to the application of the Formula Rate due to a 
change in the Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 as described in Section 
1(f), shall first raise the matter with ComEd in accordance with Section 2(a) below before 
pursuing a Formal Challenge. 
Section 2 Annual Review Procedures 
Each Annual Update shall be subject to the following review procedures 
(“Annual Review Procedures”): 
a. Interested parties shall have up to one hundred eighty (180) days after the 
Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of 
ComEd or by FERC Order) to review the inputs, supporting explanations, 
allocations and calculations (“Review Period”) and to notify ComEd in writing, 
which may be made electronically, of any specific challenges, including 
challenges related to the rate treatment of Material Accounting Changes, to the 
application of the Formula Rate and to changes to the Uniform System of 
Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 as described in Section 1.f., above, (“Preliminary 
Challenge”).  Failure to raise an issue with ComEd in accordance with Section 1(j) 
above or to pursue an issue through a Preliminary Challenge or to lodge a Formal 
Challenge, regarding any issue as to a given Annual Update, shall bar pursuit of 
such issue with respect to that Annual Update, but shall not bar pursuit of such 
issue or the lodging of a Formal Challenge as to such issue as it relates to a 
subsequent Annual Update. 
b. Interested Parties shall have up to one hundred fifty (150) days after each 
annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-13B - Commonwealth Edison Company 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 6 
of ComEd or by FERC Order) to serve reasonable information requests on 
ComEd; provided, however, that the parties making such requests shall make a 
good faith effort to submit consolidated sets of information requests that limit the 
number and overlap of questions to the maximum extent practicable.  Such 
information requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine if ComEd 
has properly applied the Formula Rate, the requirements and procedures of 
this Attachment H-13B, and the prudence of the costs and expenditures 
included for recover in the Annual Update, and shall not otherwise be 
directed to ascertaining whether the Formula Rate is just and reasonable. 
c. ComEd shall make a good faith effort to respond to information requests 
pertaining to the Annual Update within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of 
such requests.   
d. To the extent ComEd and any interested party(ies) are unable to resolve disputes 
related to information requests submitted in accordance with these Annual 
Review Procedures, ComEd or any interested party may petition the FERC to 
appoint an Administrative Law Judge as a discovery master.  The discovery 
master shall have the power to issue binding orders to resolve discovery disputes 
and compel the production of discovery, as appropriate, in accordance with the 
Annual Review Procedures and consistent with the FERC’s discovery rules. 
e. Preliminary Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and 
limitations in Section 3.  Formal Challenges shall be filed pursuant to these 
Protocols and shall include the information required under 18 CFR § 385.206 (b) 
(1), (2), (3), (4), and (7). 
Section 3 Resolution of Challenges 
a. If ComEd and any interested party(ies) have not resolved any Preliminary 
Challenge to the Annual Update within twenty-one (21) days after the Review 
Period, an interested party shall have an additional twenty-one (21) days (unless 
such period is extended with the written consent of ComEd to continue efforts to 
resolve the Preliminary Challenge) to make a Formal Challenge with the 
FERC, which shall be served on ComEd by electronic service on the date of such 
filing. However, there shall be no need to make a Formal Challenge or to await 
conclusion of the time periods in Section 2 if the FERC already has initiated a 
proceeding to consider the Annual Update. A party’s Formal Challenge may not 
raise any issue that was not the subject of that party’s Preliminary Challenge during 
the applicable Review Period. 
b. Any response by ComEd to a Formal Challenge must be submitted to the FERC 
within twenty (20) days of the date of the filing of the Formal Challenge, and 
shall be served on the filing party(ies) by electronic service on the date of such 
filing. 
c. In any proceeding initiated by the FERC concerning the Annual Update or in 
response to a Formal Challenge, ComEd shall bear the burden, consistent with 
Section 205 of the Federal Power Act, of proving that it has correctly applied the 
terms of the Formula Rate, consistent with Section 1(g)(v), and that it 
followed the applicable requirements and procedures in this Attachment 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-13B - Commonwealth Edison Company 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 7 
H-13B, in that year's Annual Update.  Nothing herein is intended to alter the 
burdens applied by the Commission with respect to prudence challenges.  
d. Subject to judicial review of FERC orders, each Annual Update shall become 
final as to the Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement calculated for the 
Rate Year for which the Annual Update was calculated and no longer subject 
to challenge pursuant to these Annual Review-Protocols or by any other means 
by the FERC or any other entity on the later to occur of (i) passage of the twenty-
one (21) day period (or extended period, if applicable) for making a Formal 
Challenge if no such challenge has been made and the FERC has not initiated a 
proceeding to consider the Annual Update, or (ii) a final FERC order issued in 
response to a Formal Challenge or a proceeding initiated by the FERC to consider 
the Annual Update. 
e. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in 
any way the right of ComEd to file unilaterally, pursuant to FPA Section 205 and 
the regulations thereunder, to change the Formula Rate or any of its inputs 
(including, but not limited to, rate of return and transmission incentive rate 
treatment), or to replace the Formula Rate with a stated rate, or the right of any 
other party to request such changes pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal Power 
Act and the regulations thereunder. 
f. Subject to Section 2(e) above, it is recognized that resolution of Formal 
Challengers concerning Material Accounting Changes or related to the Uniform 
System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 as described, above, may necessitate 
adjustments to the Formula Rate input data for the applicable Annual Update or 
changes to the Formula Rate to achieve a just and reasonable end result 
consistent with the intent of the Formula Rate. 
g. In making or resolving any Preliminary or Formal Challenge under this Section, a 
party may rely on all information provided by ComEd, including information 
provided under the terms of a confidentiality agreement or protective order; 
provided, however, that parties receiving such information pursuant to a 
confidentiality agreement or protective order shall be bound by the restrictions 
placed by such agreement or order on disclosure or use of confidential 
information.  
Section 4 Changes to Annual Informational Filings 
Any changes to the data inputs, including but not limited to revisions to ComEd’s FERC 
Form No. 1, or as the result of any FERC proceeding to consider the Annual Update, or as a 
result of the procedures set forth herein, shall be incorporated into the Formula Rate and 
the charges produced by the Formula Rate (with interest determined in accordance with 18 
C.F.R. § 35.19a) in the Annual Update for the next effective Rate Period.  This 
reconciliation mechanism shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments and any refunds 
or surcharges.  However, actual refunds or surcharges (with interest determined in 
accordance with 18 C.F.R. §35.19a) for the then current rate year shall be made in the event 
that the Formula Rate is replaced by a stated rate for ComEd. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-14 - AEP East 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 1 
