[ATTACHMENT O-2 - Part 5 of 22]

the extent and for such time period PJM determines is necessary to mitigate the unreasonable 
credit risk to any PJM Markets.  PJM will only limit or suspend a Market Participant’s market 
participation if Collateral, additional Collateral or Restricted Collateral cannot address the 
unreasonable credit risk. 
 
PJM’s determination will be based on, but not limited to, information and material provided to 
PJM during its ongoing risk evaluation process or in the Officer’s Certification, and/or 
information gleaned by PJM from public and non-public sources.  PJM will communicate its 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.II 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 14 
concerns, if any, in writing to the Market Participant and attempt to better understand the 
circumstances surrounding the Market Participant’s financial and credit position before making 
its determination.  At PJM’s request or upon its own initiative, the Market Participant or its 
Guarantor may provide supplemental information to PJM that would allow PJM to consider 
reducing the additional Collateral requested or reducing the severity of limitations or other 
restrictions designed to mitigate the Market Participant’s credit risk.  Such information shall 
include, but not be limited to: (i) the Market Participant’s estimated exposure, (ii) explanations 
for any recent change in the Market Participant’s market activity, (iii) any relevant new load or 
unit outage information; or (iv) any default or supply contract expiration, termination or 
suspension.   
 
The Market Participant shall have five (5) Business Days to respond to PJM’s request for 
supplemental information.  If the requested information is provided in full to PJM’s satisfaction 
during said period, the additional Collateral requirement shall reflect the Market Participant’s 
anticipated exposure based on the information provided.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any 
additional Collateral requested by PJM in a Collateral Call must be provided by the Market 
Participant within the applicable cure period.  
 
In the event PJM determines that an Market Participant and/or its Guarantor presents an 
unreasonable credit risk, as described above, that warrants a requirement to provide Collateral of 
any type, or some action to mitigate risk, PJM shall provide the Market Participant with a written 
explanation of why such final determination was made.   
 
PJM has the right at any time to modify any Unsecured Credit Allowance and/or require 
additional Collateral as may be deemed reasonably necessary to support current or anticipated 
market activity as set forth in Tariff, Attachment Q, sections II.A.2 and II.C.1.b.  Failure to remit 
the required amount of additional Collateral within the applicable cure period shall constitute an 
Event of Default. 
 
F. Collateral and Credit Restrictions  
 
PJM may establish certain restrictions on available credit by requiring that some amounts of 
credit, i.e. Restricted Collateral, may not be available to satisfy credit requirements.  Such 
designations shall be construed to be applicable to the calculation of credit requirements only, 
and shall not restrict PJM’s ability to apply such designated credit to any obligation(s) in case of 
a default.  Any such Restricted Collateral will be held by PJM, as applicable.  Such Restricted 
Collateral will not be returned to the Participant until PJM has determined that the risk for which 
such Restricted Collateral is being held has subsided or been resolved. 
 
PJM may post on PJM's web site, and may reference on OASIS, a supplementary document 
which contains additional business practices (such as algorithms for credit scoring) that are not 
included in this Attachment Q.  Changes to the supplementary document will be subject to 
stakeholder review and comment prior to implementation.  PJM may specify a required 
compliance date, not less than fifteen (15) calendar days from notification, by which time all 
Participants and their Guarantors must comply with provisions that have been revised in the 
supplementary document.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.II 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 15 
 
PJM will regularly post each Participant’s and/or its Guarantor’s credit requirements and credit 
provisions on the PJM web site in a secure, password-protected location.  Each Participant and/or 
its Guarantor is responsible for monitoring such information, and maintaining sufficient credit to 
satisfy the credit requirements described herein. Failure to maintain credit sufficient to satisfy the 
credit requirements of the Attachment Q shall constitute a Credit Breach, and the Participant will 
be subject to the remedies established herein and in any of the Agreements. 
 
G. Unsecured Credit Allowance Calculation 
 
The external rating from a Rating Agency will be used as the source for calculating the 
Unsecured Credit Allowance, unless no external credit rating is available in which case PJM will 
utilize its Internal Credit Score for such purposes.  If there is a split rating between the Rating 
Agencies, the lower of the ratings shall apply.   
 
Where two or more entities, including Participants, are considered Credit Affiliates, Unsecured 
Credit Allowances will be established for each individual Participant, subject to an aggregate 
maximum amount for all Credit Affiliates as provided for in Attachment Q, section II.G.3. 
 
In its credit evaluation of Municipalities and Cooperatives, PJM may request additional 
information as part of the ongoing risk evaluation process and will also consider qualitative 
factors in determining financial strength and creditworthiness.   
 
1. Credit Rating and Internal Credit Score 
 
As previously described in section II.A.3 above, PJM will determine the Internal Credit Score for 
an Applicant, Market Participant and/or its Guarantor using the credit risk scoring methodologies 
contained therein.  Internal Credit Scores, ranging from 1-6, for each Applicant, Market 
Participant and/or its Guarantor, will be determined with the following mappings:  
 
1 = Very Low Risk (S&P/Fitch: AAA to AA-; Moody’s: Aaa to Aa3) 
2 = Low Risk (S&P/Fitch: A+ to BBB+; Moody’s: A1 to Baa1) 
3 = Low to Medium Risk (S&P/Fitch: BBB; Moody’s: Baa2) 
4 = Medium Risk (S&P/Fitch: BBB-; Moody’s: Baa3) 
5 = Medium to High Risk (S&P/Fitch: BB+ to BB; Moody’s Ba1 to Ba2) 
6 = High Risk (S&P/Fitch: BB- and below; Moody’s: Ba3 and below)  
 
In instances where the external credit rating is used to calculate the unsecured credit allowance, 
PJM may also use the Internal Credit Score as an input into its determination of the overall risk 
profile of an Applicant and/or its Guarantor   
 
2. Unsecured Credit Allowance 
 
PJM will determine a Participant’s Unsecured Credit Allowance based on its external rating or 
its Internal Credit Score, as applicable, and the parameters in the table below.  The maximum 
Unsecured Credit Allowance is the lower of: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.II 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 16 
 
(a) A percentage of the Participant’s Tangible Net Worth, as stated in the table 
below, with the percentage based on the Participant’s external rating or Internal 
Credit Score, as applicable;  and  
 
(b) A dollar cap based on the external rating or Internal Credit Score, as applicable, as 
stated in the table below: 
 
Internal Credit Score Risk Ranking Tangible Net 
Worth Factor 
Maximum Unsecured 
Credit Allowance 
($ Million) 
1.00 – 1.99 1 – Very Low 
(AAA to AA-) 
Up to 10.00% $50 
2.00 – 2.99 2 – Low (A+ to 
BBB+) 
Up to 8.00% $42 
3.00 – 3.49 3 – Low to 
Medium (BBB) 
Up to 6.00% $33 
3.50 – 4.49 4 – Medium 
(BBB-) 
Up to 5.00% $7 
4.50 – 5.49 5 – Medium to 
High (BB+ to BB) 
0% $0 
 > 5.49 6 – High (BB- and 
below) 
0% $0 
 
If a Corporate Guaranty is utilized to establish an Unsecured Credit Allowance for a Participant, 
the value of a Corporate Guaranty will be the lesser of: 
 
(a) The limit imposed in the Corporate Guaranty; 
 
(b) The Unsecured Credit Allowance calculated for the Guarantor; and 
 
(c) A portion of the Unsecured Credit Allowance calculated for the Guarantor in the 
case of Credit Affiliates. 
 
PJM has the right at any time to modify any Unsecured Credit Allowance and/or require additional 
Collateral as may be deemed reasonably necessary to support current market activity.  Failure to 
remit the required amount of additional Collateral within the applicable cure period shall be 
deemed an Event of Default. 
 
PJM will maintain a posting of each Participant’s Unsecured Credit Allowance, along with 
certain other credit related parameters, on the PJM website in a secure, password-protected 
location.  Each Participant will be responsible for monitoring such information and recognizing 
changes that may occur.   
3. Unsecured Credit Limits For Credit Affiliates 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.II 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 17 
If two or more Participants are Credit Affiliates and have requested an Unsecured Credit 
Allowance, PJM will consider the overall creditworthiness of the Credit Affiliates when 
determining the Unsecured Credit Allowances in order not to establish more Unsecured Credit 
for the Credit Affiliates collectively than the overall corporate family could support. 
 
Example: Participants A and B each have a $10.0 million Corporate Guaranty from their 
common parent, a holding company with an Unsecured Credit Allowance calculation of 
$12.0 million.  PJM may limit the Unsecured Credit Allowance for each Participant to 
$6.0 million, so the total Unsecured Credit Allowance does not exceed the corporate 
family total of $12.0 million. 
 
PJM will work with the Credit Affiliates to allocate the total Unsecured Credit Allowance among 
the Credit Affiliates while assuring that no individual Participant, nor common guarantor, 
exceeds the Unsecured Credit Allowance appropriate for its credit strength.  The aggregate 
Unsecured Credit for a Participant, including Unsecured Credit Allowance granted based on its 
own creditworthiness and risk profile, and any Unsecured Credit Allowance conveyed through a 
Guaranty shall not exceed $50 million. The aggregate Unsecured Credit for a Credit Affiliates 
corporate family shall not exceed $50 million.  A Credit Affiliate corporate family subject to this 
cap shall request PJM to allocate the maximum Unsecured Credit amongst the corporate family, 
assuring that no individual Participant or common guarantor, shall exceed the Unsecured Credit 
level appropriate for its credit strength and activity. 
H. Contesting an Unsecured Credit Evaluation 
 
PJM will provide to a Participant, upon request, a written explanation for any determination of or 
change in Unsecured Credit or credit requirement within ten (10) Business Days of receiving 
such request. 
 
If a Participant believes that either its level of Unsecured Credit or its credit requirement has 
been incorrectly determined, according to this Attachment Q, then the Participant may send a 
request for reconsideration in writing to PJM.  Such a request should include: 
 
(1) A citation to the applicable section(s) of this Attachment Q along with an explanation of 
how the respective provisions of this Attachment Q were not carried out in the 
determination as made; and 
 
(2) A calculation of what the Participant believes should be the appropriate Unsecured Credit 
or Collateral requirement, according to terms of this Attachment Q. 
 
PJM will provide a written response as promptly as practical, but no more than ten (10) Business 
Days after receipt of the request.  If the Participant still feels that the determination is incorrect, 
then the Participant may contest that determination.  Such contest should be in written form, 
addressed to PJM, and should contain: 
 
(1) A complete copy of the Participant’s earlier request for reconsideration, including 
citations and calculations; 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.II 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 18 
(2) A copy of PJM’s written response to its request for reconsideration; and 
 
(3) An explanation of why it believes that the determination still does not comply with this 
Attachment Q. 
 
PJM will investigate and will respond to the Participant with a final determination on the matter 
as promptly as practical, but no more than twenty (20) Business Days after receipt of the request. 
 
Neither requesting reconsideration nor contesting the determination following such request shall 
relieve or delay Participant's responsibility to comply with all provisions of this Attachment Q, 
including without limitation posting Collateral, additional Collateral or Restricted Collateral in 
response to a Collateral Call.   
 
If a Corporate Guaranty is being utilized to establish credit for a Participant, the Guarantor will 
be evaluated and the Unsecured Credit Allowance granted, if any, based on the financial strength 
and creditworthiness, and risk profile of the Guarantor. Any utilization of a Corporate Guaranty 
will only be applicable to non-FTR credit requirements, and will not be applicable to cover FTR 
credit requirements. 
 
PJM will identify any necessary Collateral requirements and establish a Working Credit Limit 
for each Participant.  Any Unsecured Credit Allowance will only be applicable to non-FTR 
credit requirements, for positions in PJM Markets other than the FTR market, because all FTR 
credit requirements must be satisfied by posting Collateral. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.III 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
 
III. MINIMUM PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENTS 
 
A Participant seeking to participate in any PJM Markets shall submit to PJM any information or 
documentation reasonably required for PJM to evaluate its experience and resources.  If PJM 
determines, based on its review of the relevant information and after consultation with the 
Participant, that the Participant’s participation in any PJM Markets presents an unreasonable 
credit risk, PJM may reject the Participant’s application to become a Market Participant, 
notwithstanding applicant’s ability to meet other minimum participation criteria, registration 
requirements and creditworthiness requirements.   
 
A.  Annual Certification  
 
Before they are eligible to transact in any PJM Market, all Applicants shall provide to PJM (i) an 
executed copy of a credit application and (ii) a copy of the annual certification set forth in 
Attachment Q, Appendix 1. As a condition to continued eligibility to transact in any PJM 
Market, Market Participants shall provide to PJM the annual certification set forth in Attachment 
Q, Appendix 1.   
 
After the initial submission, the annual certification must be submitted each calendar year by all 
Market Participants between January 1 and April 30.  PJM will accept such certifications as a 
matter of course and the Market Participants will not need further notice from PJM before 
commencing or maintaining their eligibility to participate in any PJM Markets.   
 
A Market Participant that fails to provide its annual certification by April 30 shall be ineligible to 
transact in any PJM Markets and PJM will disable the Market Participant’s access to any PJM 
Markets until such time as PJM receives the certification.  In addition, failure to provide an 
executed annual certification in a form acceptable to PJM and by the specified deadlines may 
result in a default under the Tariff. 
 
Market Participants acknowledge and understand that the annual certification constitutes a 
representation upon which PJM will rely. Such representation is additionally made under the 
Tariff, filed with and accepted by FERC, and any false, misleading or incomplete statement 
knowingly made by the Market Participant and that is material to the Market Participant’s ability 
to perform may be considered a violation of the Tariff and subject the Market Participant to 
action by FERC.  Failure to comply with any of the criteria or requirements listed herein or in the 
certification may result in suspension or limitation of a Market Participant’s transaction rights in 
any PJM Markets. 
 
Applicants and Market Participants shall submit to PJM, upon request, any information or 
documentation reasonably and/or legally required to confirm Applicant’s or Market Participant’s 
compliance with the Agreements and the annual certification.   
 
B. PJM Market Participation Eligibility Requirements 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.III 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 2 
PJM may conduct periodic verification to confirm that Applicants and Market Participants can 
demonstrate that they meet the definition of “appropriate person” to further ensure minimum 
criteria are in place.  Such demonstration will consist of the submission of evidence and an 
executed Annual Officer Certification form as set forth in Attachment Q, Appendix 1 in a form 
acceptable to PJM.  If an Applicant or Market Participant does not provide sufficient evidence 
for verification to PJM within five (5) Business Days of written request, then such Applicant or 
Market Participant may result in a default under this Tariff.  Demonstration of “appropriate 
person” status and support of other certifications on the annual certification is one part of the 
Minimum Participation Requirements for any PJM Markets and does not obviate the need to 
meet the other Minimum Participation Requirements such as those for minimum capitalization 
and risk profile as set forth in this Attachment Q.  
 
To be eligible to transact in any PJM Markets, an Applicant or Participant must demonstrate in 
accordance with the Risk Management and Verification processes set forth below that it qualifies 
in one of the following ways: 
 
1. an “appropriate person,” as that term is defined under Commodity Exchange Act, 
section 4(c)(3), or successor provision, or; 
 
2. an “eligible contract participant,” as that term is defined in Commodity Exchange 
Act, section 1a(18), or successor provision, or; 
 
3. a business entity or person who is in the business of:  (1) generating, transmitting, or 
distributing electric energy, or (2) providing electric energy services that are 
necessary to support the reliable operation of the transmission system, or; 
 
4. an Applicant or Market Participant seeking eligibility as an “appropriate person” 
providing an unlimited Corporate Guaranty in a form acceptable to PJM as described 
in section V below from a Guarantor that has demonstrated it is an “appropriate 
person,” and has at least $1 million of total net worth or $5 million of total assets per 
Applicant and Market Participant for which the Guarantor has issued an unlimited 
Corporate Guaranty, or; 
 
5. an Applicant or Market Participant providing a Letter of Credit of at least $5 million 
to PJM in a form acceptable to PJM as described in section V below, that the 
Applicant or Market Participant acknowledges is separate from, and cannot be 
applied to meet, its credit requirements to PJM, or; 
 
6. an Applicant or Market Participant providing a surety bond of at least $5 million to 
PJM in a form acceptable to PJM as described in section V below, that the Applicant 
or Market Participant acknowledges is separate from, and cannot be applied to meet, 
its credit requirements to PJM. 
 
If, at any time, a Market Participant cannot meet the eligibility requirements set forth above, it 
shall immediately notify PJM and immediately cease conducting transactions in any PJM 
Markets.  PJM may terminate a Market Participant’s transaction rights in any PJM Markets if, at 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.III 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 3 
any time, it becomes aware that the Market Participant does not meet the minimum eligibility 
requirements set forth above. 
 
In the event that a Market Participant is no longer able to demonstrate it meets the minimum 
eligibility requirements set forth above, and possesses, obtains or has rights to possess or obtain, 
any open or forward positions in any PJM Markets, PJM may take any such action it deems 
necessary with respect to such open or forward positions, including, but not limited to, 
liquidation, transfer, assignment, sale or allowing position(s) to go to settlement; provided, 
however, that the Market Participant will, notwithstanding its ineligibility to participate in any 
PJM Markets, be entitled to any positive market value of those positions, net of any obligations 
due and owing to PJM. 
 
C. Risk Management and Verification 
 
All Market Participants must maintain current written risk management policies, procedures, or 
controls to address how market and credit risk is managed, and are required to submit to PJM (at 
the time they make their annual certification) a copy of their current governing risk control 
policies, procedures and controls applicable to their market activities.  PJM will review such 
documentation to verify that it appears generally to conform to prudent risk management 
practices for entities participating in any PJM Markets.   
 
All Market Participants subject to this provision shall make a one-time payment of $1,500.00 to 
PJM to cover administrative costs.  Thereafter, if such Participant’s risk policies, procedures and 
controls applicable to its market activities change substantively, it shall submit such modified 
documentation, with applicable administrative charge determined by PJM, to PJM for review and 
verification at the time it makes its annual certification.  All Market Participant’s continued 
eligibility to participate in any PJM Markets is conditioned on PJM notifying a Participant that 
its annual certification, including the submission of its risk policies, procedures and controls, has 
been accepted by PJM.  PJM may retain outside expertise to perform the review and verification 
function described in this section, however, in all circumstances, PJM and any third-party it may 
retain will treat as confidential the documentation provided by a Participant under this section, 
consistent with the applicable provisions of the Operating Agreement. 
 
Participants must demonstrate that they have implemented prudent risk management policies and 
procedures in order to be eligible to participate in any PJM Markets.  Participants must 
demonstrate on at least an annual basis that they have implemented and maintained prudent risk 
management policies and procedures in order to continue to participate in any PJM Markets.  
Upon written request, the Participant will have fourteen (14) calendar days to provide to PJM 
current governing risk management policies, procedures, or controls applicable to Participant’s 
activities in any PJM Markets.   
 
D. Capitalization 
 
In advance of certification, Applicants shall meet the minimum capitalization requirements 
below.  In addition to the annual certification requirements in Attachment Q, Appendix 1, a 
Market Participant shall satisfy the minimum capitalization requirements on an annual basis 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.III 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 4 
thereafter.  A Participant must demonstrate that it meets the minimum financial requirements 
appropriate for the PJM Markets in which it transacts by satisfying either the minimum 
capitalization or the provision of Collateral requirements listed below: 
 
1. Minimum Capitalization 
 
Minimum capitalization may be met by demonstrating minimum levels of Tangible Net Worth or 
tangible assets.  FTR Participants must demonstrate a Tangible Net Worth in excess of $1 
million or tangible assets in excess of $10 million.  Other Market Participants must demonstrate 
a Tangible Net Worth in excess of $500,000 or tangible assets in excess of $5 million. 
 
(a) Consideration of tangible assets and Tangible Net Worth shall exclude assets which PJM 
reasonably believes to be restricted, highly risky, or potentially unavailable to settle a claim in 
the event of default.  Examples include, but are not limited to, restricted assets, derivative assets, 
goodwill, and other intangible assets. 
 
(b) Demonstration of “tangible” assets and Tangible Net Worth may be satisfied through 
presentation of an acceptable Corporate Guaranty, provided that both: 
 
(i) the Guarantor is a Credit Affiliate company that satisfies the Tangible Net Worth 
or tangible assets requirements herein, and; 
 
 (ii) the Corporate Guaranty is either unlimited or at least $500,000. 
 
If the Corporate Guaranty presented by the Participant to satisfy these 
capitalization requirements is limited in value, then the Participant’s resulting 
Unsecured Credit Allowance shall be the lesser of: 
 
(1) the applicable Unsecured Credit Allowance available to the Participant by 
the Corporate Guaranty pursuant to the creditworthiness provisions of this 
Attachment Q, or, 
 
(2) the face value of the Corporate Guaranty, reduced by $500,000 and further 
reduced by 10%.  (For example, a $10.5 million Corporate Guaranty 
would be reduced first by $500,000 to $10 million and then further 
reduced 10% more to $9 million.  The resulting $9 million would be the 
Participant’s Unsecured Credit Allowance available through the Corporate 
Guaranty). 
 
 In the event that a Participant provides Collateral in addition to a limited 
Corporate Guaranty to increase its available credit, the value of such 
Collateral shall be reduced by 10%.  This reduced value shall be 
considered the amount available to satisfy requirements of this Attachment 
Q. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.III 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 5 
(c) Demonstrations of minimum capitalization (minimum Tangible Net Worth or tangible 
assets) must be presented in the form of audited financial statements for the Participant’s most 
recent fiscal year during the initial risk evaluation process and ongoing risk evaluation process. 
 
2. Provision of Collateral 
 
If a Participant does not demonstrate compliance with its applicable minimum capitalization 
requirements above, it may still qualify to participate in any PJM Markets by posting Collateral, 
additional Collateral, and/or Restricted Collateral, subject to the terms and conditions set forth 
herein. 
 
Any Collateral provided by a Participant unable to satisfy the minimum capitalization 
requirements above will also be restricted in the following manner:  
(a) Collateral provided by Market Participants that engage in FTR transactions shall 
be reduced by an amount of the current risk plus any future risk to any PJM 
Markets and PJM membership in general, and may coincide with limitations on 
market participation.  The amount of this Restricted Collateral shall not be 
available to cover any credit requirements from market activity.  The remaining 
value shall be considered the amount available to satisfy requirements of this 
Attachment Q. 
(b) Collateral provided by other Participants that engage in Virtual Transactions or 
Export Transactions shall be reduced by $200,000 and then further reduced by 
10%.  The amount of this Restricted Collateral shall not be available to cover any 
credit requirements from market activity.  The remaining value shall be 
considered the amount available to satisfy requirements of this Attachment Q. 
(c) Collateral provided by other Participants that do not engage in Virtual 
Transactions or Export Transactions shall be reduced by 10%.  The amount of this 
Restricted Collateral shall not be available to cover any credit requirements from 
market activity.  The remaining value shall be considered the amount available to 
satisfy requirements of this Attachment Q. 
In the event a Participant that satisfies the minimum capital requirement through provision of 
Collateral also provides a Corporate Guaranty to increase its available credit, then the 
Participant’s resulting Unsecured Credit Allowance conveyed through such Corporate Guaranty 
shall be the lesser of: 
(a) the applicable Unsecured Credit Allowance available to the Participant by the 
Corporate Guaranty pursuant to the creditworthiness provisions of this 
Attachment Q; or  
(b) the face value of the Corporate Guaranty, reduced commensurate with the amount 
of the current risk plus any anticipated future risk to any PJM Markets and PJM membership in 
general, and may coincide with limitations on market participation.  
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.IV 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
IV.   ONGOING COVENANTS  
 
A. Ongoing Obligation to Provide Information to PJM 
 
So long as a Participant is eligible to participate, or participates or holds positions, in any PJM 
Markets, it shall deliver to PJM, in form and detail satisfactory to PJM: 
(1) All financial statements and other financial disclosures as required by section II.E.2 by 
the deadline set forth therein; 
(2) Notice, within five (5) Business Days, of any Principal becoming aware that the 
Participant does not meet the Minimum Participation Requirements set forth in section 
III;  
(3) Notice when any Principal becomes aware of any matter that has resulted or would 
reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change in the financial condition 
of the Participant or its Guarantor, if any, a description of such Material Adverse Change 
in detail reasonable to allow PJM to determine its potential effect on, or any change in, 
the Participant’s risk profile as a participant in any PJM Markets, by the deadline set forth 
in section II.E.3 above; 
(4) Notice, within the deadline set forth therein, of any Principal becoming aware of a 
litigation or contingency event described in section II.E.4, or of a Material Adverse 
Change in any such litigation or contingency event previously disclosed to PJM, 
information in detail reasonable to allow PJM to determine its potential effect on, or any 
change in, the Market Participant’s risk profile as a participant in any PJM Markets by 
the deadline set forth therein; 
(5) Notice, within two (2) Business Days after any Principal becomes aware of a Credit 
Breach, Financial Default, or Credit Support Default, that includes a description of such 
default or event and the Participant’s proposals for addressing the default or event; 
(6)   As soon as available but not later than April 30 th of any calendar year, the annual 
Certification described in section III.A in a form set forth in Attachment Q, Appendix 1; 
(7) Concurrently with submission of the annual certification, demonstration that the 
Participant meets the minimum capitalization requirements set forth in section III.D;  
(8) Concurrently with submission of the annual certification and within the applicable 
deadline of any substantive change, or within the applicable deadline of a request from 
PJM, a copy of the Participant’s written risk management policies, procedures or controls 
addressing how the Participant manages market and credit risk in the PJM Markets in 
which it participates, as well as a high level summary by the chief risk officer or other 
Principal regarding any material violations, breaches, or compliance or disciplinary 
actions related to the risk management policies, by the Participant under the policies, 
procedures or controls within the prior 12 months, as set forth in section VI.B below;  
(9) Within five (5) Business Days of request by PJM, evidence demonstrating the Participant 
meets the definition of “appropriate person” or “eligible contract participant,” as those 
terms are defined in the Commodity Exchange Act and the CFTC regulations 
promulgated thereunder, or of any other certification in the annual Certification; or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.IV 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 2 
(10) Within a reasonable time after PJM requests, any other information or documentation 
reasonably and/or legally required by PJM to confirm Participant’s compliance with the 
Tariff and its eligibility to participate in any PJM Markets. 
Participants acknowledge and understand that the deliveries constitute representations upon 
which PJM will rely in allowing the Participant to continue to participate in its markets, with the 
Internal Credit Score and Unsecured Credit Allowance, if any, previously determined by PJM.   
B. Risk Management Review 
PJM shall also conduct a periodic compliance verification process to review and verify, as 
applicable, Participants’ risk management policies, practices, and procedures pertaining to the 
Participant’s activities in any PJM Markets.  PJM shall review such documentation to verify that 
it appears generally to conform to prudent risk management practices for entities trading in any 
PJM Markets. Participant shall also provide a high level summary by the chief risk officer or 
other Principal regarding any material violations, breaches, or compliance or disciplinary actions 
in connection with such risk management policies, practices and procedures within the prior 
twelve (12) months. 
If a third-party industry association publishes or modifies principles or best practices relating to 
risk management in North American markets for electricity, natural gas or electricity-related 
commodity products, PJM may, following stakeholder discussion and with no less than six (6) 
months prior notice to stakeholders, consider such principles or best practices in evaluating the 
Participant’s risk controls.   
 
PJM will prioritize the verification of risk management policies based on a number of criteria, 
including but not limited to how long the entity has been in business, the Participant’s and its 
Principals’ history of participation in any PJM Markets, and any other information obtained in 
determining the risk profile of the Participant. 
 
Each Participant’s continued eligibility to participate in any PJM Markets is conditioned upon 
PJM notifying the Participant of successful completion of PJM’s verification of the Participant’s 
risk management policies, practices and procedures, as discussed herein.  However, if PJM 
notifies the Participant in writing that it could not successfully complete the verification process, 
PJM shall allow such Participant fourteen (14) calendar days to provide sufficient evidence for 
verification prior to declaring the Participant as ineligible to continue to participate in any PJM 
Markets, which declaration shall be in writing with an explanation of why PJM could not 
complete the verification.  If the Participant does not provide sufficient evidence for verification 
to PJM within the required cure period, such Participant will be considered in default under this 
Tariff. PJM may retain outside expertise to perform the review and verification function 
described in this paragraph.  PJM and any third party it may retain will treat as confidential the 
documentation provided by a Participant under this paragraph, consistent with the applicable 
provisions of the Agreements.  If PJM retains such outside expertise, a Participant may direct in 
writing that PJM perform the risk management review and verification for such Participant 
instead of utilizing a third party, provided however, that employees and contract employees of 
PJM shall not be considered to be such outside expertise or third parties.   
 
Participants are solely responsible for the positions they take and the obligations they assume in 
any PJM Markets.  PJM hereby disclaims any and all responsibility to any Participant or PJM 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.IV 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 3 
Member associated with Participant’s submitting or failure to submit its annual certification or 
PJM’s review and verification of a Participant’s risk policies, procedures and controls.  Such 
review and verification is limited to demonstrating basic compliance by a Participant showing 
the existence of written policies, procedures and controls to limit its risk in any PJM Markets and 
does not constitute an endorsement of the efficacy of such policies, procedures or controls. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
V.   FORMS OF CREDIT SUPPORT 
 
In order to satisfy their PJM credit requirements Participants may provide credit support in a 
PJM-approved form and amount pursuant to the guidelines herein, provided that, 
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, a Market Participant in PJM’s FTR 
markets shall meet its credit support requirements related to those FTR markets with either cash 
or Letters of Credit.   
 
Unless otherwise restricted by PJM, credit support provided may be used by PJM to secure the 
payment of Participant’s financial obligations under the Agreements.  
 
Collateral which may no longer be required to be maintained under provisions of the 
Agreements, shall be returned at the request of a Participant, no later than two (2) Business Days 
following determination by PJM within a commercially reasonable period of time that such 
Collateral is not required. 
 
Except when an Event of Default has occurred, a Participant may substitute an approved PJM 
form of Collateral for another PJM approved form of Collateral of equal value.   
 
A. Cash Deposit 
 
A Participant’s delivery of a cash deposit to PJM as Collateral shall constitute the grant of a first-
priority security interest in the cash in favor of PJM and PJM shall be authorized by such 
delivery to hold the cash as security and to apply it to the Participant’s financial obligations 
under the Tariff or other Agreements.  Cash provided by a Participant as Collateral will be held 
in a depository account by PJM.  Interest on a cash deposit shall accrue to the benefit of the 
Participant, provided that PJM may require Participants to provide appropriate tax and other 
information in order to accrue such interest credits.  A Participant who delivers cash to PJM 
hereunder agrees that the Tariff and any other agreements incorporating the terms of the Tariff 
shall for all purposes constitute a security agreement. 
 
Cash Collateral may not be pledged or in any way encumbered or restricted from full and timely 
use by PJM in accordance with terms of the Agreements.   
 
PJM has the right to liquidate all or a portion of the Collateral account balance at its discretion to 
satisfy a Participant’s Total Net Obligation to PJM in the Event of Default under this Attachment 
Q or one or more of the Agreements.   
 
B. Letter of Credit   
 
An unconditional, irrevocable standby Letter of Credit can be utilized to meet the Collateral 
requirement.  As stated below, the form, substance, and provider of the Letter of Credit must all 
be acceptable to PJM.  
 
(1) The Letter of Credit will only be accepted from U.S.-based financial institutions or U.S. 
branches of foreign financial institutions (“financial institutions”) that have a minimum 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 2 
corporate debt rating of “A” by Standard & Poor’s or Fitch Ratings, or “A2” from Moody’s 
Investors Service, or an equivalent short term rating from one of these agencies.  PJM will 
consider the lowest applicable rating to be the rating of the financial institution.  If the 
rating of a financial institution providing a Letter of Credit is lowered below A/A2 by any 
Rating Agency, then PJM may require the Participant to provide a Letter of Credit from 
another financial institution that is rated A/A2 or better, or to provide a cash deposit.  If a 
Letter of Credit is provided from a U.S. branch of a foreign institution, the U.S. branch 
must itself comply with the terms of this Attachment Q, including having its own 
acceptable credit rating. 
 
(2) The Letter of Credit shall state that it shall renew automatically for successive one-year 
periods, until terminated upon at least ninety (90) calendar days prior written notice from 
the issuing financial institution.  If PJM or PJM receives notice from the issuing financial 
institution that the current Letter of Credit is being cancelled or expiring, the Participant 
will be required to provide evidence, acceptable to PJM, that such Letter of Credit will be 
replaced with appropriate Collateral, effective as of the cancellation date of the Letter of 
Credit, no later than thirty (30) calendar days before the cancellation date of the Letter of 
Credit, and no later than ninety (90) calendar days after the notice of cancellation.  Failure 
to do so will constitute a default under this Attachment Q and one or more of the 
Agreements.  
 
(3) PJM will post on its web site an acceptable standard form of a Letter of Credit that should 
be utilized by a Participant choosing to submit a Letter of Credit to establish credit at PJM.  
If the Letter of Credit varies in any way from the standard format, it must first be reviewed 
and approved by PJM.  All costs associated with obtaining and maintaining a Letter of 
Credit and meeting the Attachment Q provisions are the responsibility of the Participant. 
 
(4) PJM may accept a Letter of Credit from a financial institution that does not meet the credit 
standards of this Attachment Q provided that the Letter of Credit has third-party support, 
in a form acceptable to PJM, from a financial institution that does meet the credit standards 
of this Attachment Q. 
 
C. Corporate Guaranty  
 
An irrevocable and unconditional Corporate Guaranty may be utilized to establish an Unsecured 
Credit Allowance for a Participant.  Such credit will be considered a transfer of Unsecured Credit 
from the Guarantor to the Participant, and will not be considered a form of Collateral.  
 
PJM will post on its web site an acceptable form that should be utilized by a Participant choosing 
to establish its credit with a Corporate Guaranty.  If the Corporate Guaranty varies in any way 
from the PJM format, it must first be reviewed and approved by PJM before it may be applied to 
satisfy the Participant’s credit requirements.   
The Corporate Guaranty must be signed by an officer of the Guarantor, and must demonstrate 
that it is duly authorized in a manner acceptable to PJM.  Such demonstration may include either 
a corporate seal on the Corporate Guaranty itself, or an accompanying executed and sealed 
secretary’s certificate from the Guarantor’s corporate secretary noting that the Guarantor was 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 3 
duly authorized to provide such Corporate Guaranty and that the person signing the Corporate 
Guaranty is duly authorized, or other manner acceptable to PJM.  
  
PJM will evaluate the creditworthiness of a Guarantor and will establish any Unsecured Credit 
granted through a Corporate Guaranty using the methodology and requirements established for 
Participants requesting an Unsecured Credit Allowance as described herein.  Foreign Guaranties 
and Canadian Guaranties shall be subject to additional requirements as established herein.  
If PJM determines at any time that a Material Adverse Change in the financial condition of the 
Guarantor has occurred, or if the Corporate Guaranty comes within thirty (30) calendar days of 
expiring without renewal, PJM may reduce or eliminate any Unsecured Credit afforded to the 
Participant through the guaranty.  Such reduction or elimination may require the Participant to 
provide Collateral within the applicable cure period. If the Participant fails to provide the 
required Collateral, the Participant shall be in default under this Attachment Q. 
 
All costs associated with obtaining and maintaining a Corporate Guaranty and meeting the 
Attachment Q provisions are the responsibility of the Participant.   
 
1. Foreign Guaranties 
 
A Foreign Guaranty is a Corporate Guaranty that is provided by a Credit Affiliate entity that is 
domiciled in a country other than the United States or Canada. The entity providing a Foreign 
Guaranty on behalf of a Participant is a Foreign Guarantor.  A Participant may provide a Foreign 
Guaranty in satisfaction of part of its credit obligations or voluntary credit provision at PJM 
provided that all of the following conditions are met: 
 
PJM reserves the right to deny, reject, or terminate acceptance of any Foreign Guaranty at any 
time, including for material adverse circumstances or occurrences.  
 
(a) A Foreign Guaranty: 
(i) Must contain provisions equivalent to those contained in PJM’s standard form of 
Foreign Guaranty with any modifications subject to review and approval by PJM 
counsel. 
(ii) Must be denominated in US currency. 
(iii) Must be written and executed solely in English, including any duplicate originals. 
(iv) Will not be accepted towards a Participant’s Unsecured Credit Allowance for 
more than the following limits, depending on the Foreign Guarantor's credit 
rating: 
 
 
Rating of Foreign Guarantor 
Maximum Accepted 
Guaranty if Country Rating is 
AAA 
Maximum Accepted 
Guaranty if Country 
Rating is AA+ 
A- and above USD50,000,000 USD30,000,000 
BBB+ USD30,000,000 USD20,000,000 
BBB USD10,000,000 USD10,000,000 
BBB- or below USD 0 USD 0 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 4 
(v) May not exceed 50% of the Participant’s total credit, if the Foreign Grantor is 
rated less than BBB+. 
 
(b) A Foreign Guarantor: 
(i) Must satisfy all provisions of this Attachment Q applicable to domestic 
Guarantors. 
(ii) Must be a Credit Affiliate of the Participant. 
(iii) Must maintain an agent for acceptance of service of process in the United States; 
such agent shall be situated in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, absent legal 
constraint. 
(iv) Must be rated by at least one Rating Agency acceptable to PJM; the credit 
strength of a Foreign Guarantor may not be determined based on an evaluation of 
its audited financial statements without an actual credit rating as well. 
(v) Must have a senior unsecured (or equivalent, in PJM’s sole discretion) rating of 
BBB (one notch above BBB-) or greater by any and all agencies that provide 
rating coverage of the entity. 
(vi) Must provide audited financial statements, in US GAAP format or any other 
format acceptable to PJM, with clear representation of net worth, intangible 
assets, and any other information PJM may require in order to determine the 
entity’s Unsecured Credit Allowance. 
(vii) Must provide a Secretary’s Certificate from the Participant’s corporate secretary 
certifying the adoption of Corporate Resolutions: 
1. Authorizing and approving the Guaranty; and 
2. Authorizing the Officers to execute and deliver the Guaranty on behalf of 
the Guarantor.   
(viii) Must be domiciled in a country with a minimum long-term sovereign (or 
equivalent) rating of AA+/Aa1, with the following conditions: 
1. Sovereign ratings must be available from at least two rating agencies 
acceptable to PJM (e.g. S&P, Moody’s, Fitch, DBRS).  
2. Each agency’s sovereign rating for the domicile will be considered to be 
the lowest of: country ceiling, senior unsecured government debt, long-
term foreign currency sovereign rating, long-term local currency sovereign 
rating, or other equivalent measures, at PJM’s sole discretion.  
3. Whether ratings are available from two or three agencies, the lowest of the 
two or three will be used. 
(ix) Must be domiciled in a country that recognizes and enforces judgments of US 
courts. 
(x) Must demonstrate financial commitment to activity in the United States as 
evidenced by one of the following: 
1. American Depository Receipts (ADR) are traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange, American Stock Exchange, or NASDAQ. 
2. Equity ownership worth over USD 100,000,000 in the wholly-owned or 
majority owned subsidiaries in the United States. 
(xi) Must satisfy all other applicable provisions of the PJM Tariff and/or Operating 
Agreement, including this Attachment Q. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 5 
(xii) Must pay for all expenses incurred by PJM related to reviewing and accepting a 
foreign guaranty beyond nominal in-house credit and legal review. 
(xiii) Must, at its own cost, provide PJM with independent legal opinion from an 
attorney/solicitor of PJM’s choosing and licensed to practice law in the United 
States and/or Guarantor’s domicile, in form and substance acceptable to PJM in 
its sole discretion, confirming the enforceability of the Foreign Guaranty, the 
Guarantor’s legal authorization to grant the Guaranty, the conformance of the 
Guaranty, Guarantor, and Guarantor's domicile to all of these requirements, and 
such other matters as PJM may require in its sole discretion. 
 
2. Canadian Guaranties 
 
The entity providing a Canadian Guaranty on behalf of a Participant is a Canadian Guarantor.  A 
Participant may provide a Canadian Guaranty in satisfaction of part of its credit obligations or 
voluntary credit provision at PJM provided that all of the following conditions are met. 
 
PJM reserves the right to deny, reject, or terminate acceptance of any Canadian Guaranty at any 
time for reasonable cause, including material adverse circumstances or occurrences. 
 
(a) A Canadian Guaranty: 
(i) Must contain provisions equivalent to those contained in PJM’s standard form of 
Foreign Guaranty with any modifications subject to review and approval by PJM 
counsel. 
(ii) Must be denominated in US currency. 
(iii) Must be written and executed solely in English, including any duplicate originals. 
 
(b) A Canadian Guarantor: 
(i) Must be a Credit Affiliate of the Participant. 
(ii) Must satisfy all provisions of this Attachment Q applicable to domestic 
Guarantors. 
(iii) Must maintain an agent for acceptance of service of process in the United States; 
such agent shall be situated in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, absent legal 
constraint. 
(iv) Must be rated by at least one Rating Agency acceptable to PJM; the credit 
strength of a Canadian Guarantor may not be determined based on an evaluation 
of its audited financial statements without an actual credit rating as well. 
(v) Must provide audited financial statements, in US GAAP format or any other 
format acceptable to PJM with clear representation of net worth, intangible assets, 
and any other information PJM may require in order to determine the entity's 
Unsecured Credit Allowance. 
(vi) Must satisfy all other applicable provisions of the PJM Tariff and/or Operating 
Agreement, including this Attachment Q.  
 
D. Surety Bond   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 6 
An unconditional, irrevocable surety bond can be utilized to meet the Collateral requirement for 
Participants.  As stated below, the form, substance, and provider of the surety bond must all be 
acceptable to PJM. 
 
(i) An acceptable surety bond must be payable immediately upon demand without 
prior demonstration of the validity of the demand.  The surety bond will only be 
accepted from a U.S. Treasury-listed approved surety that has either (i) a minimum 
corporate debt rating of “A” by Standard & Poor’s or Fitch Ratings, or “A2” from 
Moody’s Investors Service, or an equivalent short term rating from one of these 
agencies, or (ii) a minimum insurer rating of “A” by A.M. Best.  PJMSettlement 
will consider the lowest applicable rating to be the rating of the surety.  If the rating 
of a surety providing a surety bond is lowered below A/A2 by any rating agency, 
then PJMSettlement may require the Participant to provide a surety bond from 
another surety that is rated A/A2 or better, or to provide another form of Collateral.  
 
(ii) The surety bond shall have an initial period of at least one year, and shall state that 
it shall renew automatically for successive one-year periods, until terminated upon 
at least ninety (90) days prior written notice from the issuing surety.  If PJM 
receives notice from the issuing surety that the current surety bond is being 
cancelled, the Participant will be required to provide evidence, acceptable to PJM, 
that such surety bond will be replaced with appropriate Collateral, effective as of 
the cancellation date of the surety bond, no later than thirty (30) days before the 
cancellation date of the surety bond, and no later than ninety (90) days after the 
notice of cancellation.  Failure to do so will constitute a default under this 
Attachment Q and one of more of the Agreements enabling PJM to immediately 
demand payment of the full value of the surety bond.  
 
(iii) PJM will post on its web site an acceptable standard form of a surety bond that 
should be utilized by a Participant choosing to submit a surety bond to establish 
credit at PJM.  The acceptable standard form of surety bond will include non-
negotiable provisions, including but not be limited to, a payment on demand 
feature, requirement that the bond be construed pursuant to Pennsylvania law,  
making the surety’s obligation to pay out on the bond absolute and unconditional 
irrespective of the principal’s (Market Participant’s) bankruptcy, terms of any other 
agreements, investigation of the Market Participant by any entity or governmental 
authority, or PJM first attempting to collect payment from the Market Participant, 
and will require, among other things, that (a) the surety waive all rights that would 
be available to a principal or surety under the law, including but not limited to any 
right to investigate or verify any matter related to a demand for payment, rights to 
set-off amounts due by PJM to the Market Participant, and all counterclaims, (b) 
the surety expressly waive all of its and the principal’s defenses, including 
illegality, fraud in the inducement, reliance on statements or representations of PJM 
and every other typically available defense; (c) the language of the bond that is 
determinative of the surety’s obligation, and not the underlying agreement or 
arrangement between the principal and the oblige; (d) the bond shall not be 
conditioned on PJM first resorting to any other means of security or collateral, or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 7 
pursuing any other remedies it may have; and (e) the surety acknowledge the 
continuing nature of its obligations in the event of termination or nonrenewal of the 
surety bond to make clear the surety remains liable for any obligations that arose 
before the effective date of its notice of cancellation of the surety bond.  If the surety 
bond varies in any way from the standard format, it must first be reviewed and 
approved by PJM.  PJM shall not accept any surety bond that varies in any material 
way from the standard format.   
 
(iv) All costs associated with obtaining and maintaining a surety bond and meeting the 
Attachment Q provisions are the responsibility of the Participant. 
 
(v) PJM shall not accept surety bonds with an aggregate value greater than $10 million 
dollars ($10,000,000) issued by any individual surety on behalf of any individual 
Participant.  
 
(vi) PJM shall not accept surety bonds with an aggregate value greater than $50 million 
dollars ($50,000,000) issued by any individual surety. 
 
E.  PJM Administrative Charges 
 
Collateral or credit support held by PJM shall also secure obligations to PJM for PJM 
administrative charges, and may be liquidated to satisfy all such obligations in an Event of 
Default. 
 
F. Collateral and Credit Support Held by PJM  
 
Collateral or credit support submitted by Participants and held by PJM shall be held by PJM for 
the benefit of PJM. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
VI. SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR SCREENED 
TRANSACTIONS 
 
A. Virtual and Export Transaction Screening 
 
1. Credit for Virtual and Export Transactions 
 
Export Transactions and Virtual Transactions both utilize Credit Available for Virtual 
Transactions to support their credit requirements.   
 
PJM does not require a Market Participant to establish separate or additional credit for 
submitting Virtual or Export Transactions; however, once transactions are submitted and 
accepted by PJM, PJM may require credit supporting those transactions to be held until the 
transactions are completed and their financial impact incorporated into the Market Participant’s 
Obligations.  If a Market Participant chooses to establish additional Collateral and/or Unsecured 
Credit Allowance in order to increase its Credit Available for Virtual Transactions, the Market 
Participant’s Working Credit Limit for Virtual Transactions shall be increased in accordance 
with the definition thereof.  The Collateral and/or Unsecured Credit Allowance available to 
increase a Market Participant’s Credit Available for Virtual Transactions shall be the amount of 
Collateral and/or Unsecured Credit Allowance available after subtracting any credit required for 
Minimum Participation Requirements, FTR, RPM or other credit requirement determinants 
defined in this Attachment Q, as applicable. 
 
If a Market Participant chooses to provide additional Collateral in order to increase its Credit 
Available for Virtual Transactions PJM may establish a reasonable timeframe, not to exceed 
three months, for which such Collateral must be maintained.  PJM will not impose such 
restriction on a deposit unless a Market Participant is notified prior to making the deposit.  Such 
restriction, if applied, shall be applied to all future deposits by all Market Participants engaging 
in Virtual Transactions. 
 
A Market Participant may increase its Credit Available for Virtual Transactions by providing 
additional Collateral to PJM.  PJM will make a good faith effort to make new Collateral 
available as Credit Available for Virtual Transactions as soon as practicable after confirmation of 
receipt.  In any event, however, Collateral received and confirmed by noon on a Business Day 
will be applied (as provided under this Attachment Q) to Credit Available for Virtual 
Transactions no later than 10:00 am on the following Business Day.  Receipt and acceptance of 
wired funds for cash deposit shall mean actual receipt by PJM’s bank, deposit into PJM’s 
customer deposit account, confirmation by PJM that such wire has been received and deposited, 
and entry into PJM’s credit system.  Receipt and acceptance of letters of credit or surety bonds 
shall mean receipt of the original Letter of Credit or surety bond, or amendment thereto, 
confirmation from PJM’s credit and legal staffs that such Letter of Credit or surety bond, or 
amendment thereto conforms to PJM’s requirements, which confirmation shall be made in a 
reasonable and practicable timeframe, and entry into PJM’s credit system.  To facilitate this 
process, bidders submitting additional Collateral for the purpose of increasing their Credit 
Available for Virtual Transactions are advised to submit such Collateral well in advance of the 
desired time, and to specifically notify PJM of such submission. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 2 
 
A Market Participant wishing to submit Virtual or Export Transactions must allocate within 
PJM’s credit system the appropriate amount of Credit Available for Virtual Transactions to the 
virtual and export allocation sections within each customer account in which it wishes to submit 
such transactions.  
 
2. Virtual Transaction Screening  
 
All Virtual Transactions submitted to PJM shall be subject to a credit screen prior to acceptance 
in the Day-ahead Energy Market.  The credit screen is applied separately for each of a Market 
Participant’s customer accounts.  The credit screen process will automatically reject Virtual 
Transactions submitted by the Market Participant in a customer account if the Market 
Participant’s Credit Available for Virtual Transactions, allocated on a customer account basis, is 
exceeded by the Virtual Credit Exposure that is calculated based on the Market Participant’s 
Virtual Transactions submitted, as described below. 
 
A Market Participant’s Virtual Credit Exposure will be calculated separately for each customer 
account on a daily basis for all Virtual Transactions submitted by the Market Participant for the 
next Operating Day using the following equation: 
 
Virtual Credit Exposure = INC and DEC Exposure + Up-to Congestion Exposure  
Where: 
 
(a) INC and DEC Exposure for each customer account is calculated as: 
 
 (i) ((the total MWh bid or offered, whichever is greater, hourly at each node) x the Nodal 
Reference Price x 1 day) summed over all nodes and all hours; plus (ii) ((the difference between 
the total bid MWh cleared and total offered MWh cleared hourly at each node) x Nodal 
Reference Price) summed over all nodes and all hours for the previous cleared Day-ahead 
Energy Market. 
 
(b) Up-to Congestion Exposure for each customer account is calculated as: 
 
(i) Total MWh bid hourly for each Up-to Congestion Transaction x (price bid – Up-to 
Congestion Reference Price) summed over all Up-to Congestion Transactions and all hours; plus 
(ii) Total MWh cleared hourly for each Up-to Congestion Transaction x (cleared price – Up-to 
Congestion Reference Price) summed over all Up-to Congestion Transactions and all hours for 
the previous cleared Day-ahead Energy Market, provided that hours for which the calculation for 
an Up-to Congestion Transaction is negative, it shall be deemed to have a zero contribution to 
the sum. 
 
3. Export Transaction Screening 
 
Export Transactions in the Real-time Energy Market shall be subject to Export Transaction 
Screening.  Export Transaction Screening may be performed either for the duration of the entire 
Export Transaction, or separately for each time interval comprising an Export Transaction.  PJM 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 3 
will deny or curtail all or a portion (based on the relevant time interval) of  an Export Transaction  
if that Export Transaction, or portion thereof, would otherwise cause the Market Participant's 
Export Credit Exposure to exceed its Credit Available for Export Transactions.  Export 
Transaction Screening shall be applied separately for each Operating Day and shall also be 
applied to each Export Transaction one or more times prior to the market clearing process for 
each relevant time interval.  Export Transaction Screening shall not apply to transactions 
established directly by and between PJM and a neighboring Balancing Authority for the purpose 
of maintaining reliability. 
 
A Market Participant’s credit exposure for an individual Export Transaction shall be the MWh 
volume of the Export Transaction for each relevant time interval multiplied by each relevant 
Export Transaction Price Factor and summed over all relevant time intervals of the Export 
Transaction. 
 
B. RPM Auction and Price Responsive Demand Credit Requirements 
 
Settlement during any Delivery Year of cleared positions resulting or expected to result from any 
RPM Auction shall be included as appropriate in Peak Market Activity, and the provisions of this 
Attachment Q shall apply to any such activity and obligations arising therefrom.  In addition, the 
provisions of this section shall apply to any entity seeking to participate in any RPM Auction, to 
address credit risks unique to such auctions.  The provisions of this section also shall apply under 
certain circumstances to PRD Providers that seek to commit Price Responsive Demand pursuant 
to the provisions of the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Credit requirements described herein for RPM Auctions and RPM bilateral transactions are 
applied separately for each customer account of a Market Participant.  Market Participants 
wishing to participate in an RPM Auction or enter into RPM bilateral transactions must designate 
the appropriate amount of credit to each account in which their offers are submitted.   
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 4 
1. Applicability 
 
A Market Participant seeking to submit a Sell Offer in any RPM Auction based on any Capacity 
Resource for which there is a materially increased risk of nonperformance must satisfy the credit 
requirement specified herein before submitting such Sell Offer.  A PRD Provider seeking to 
commit Price Responsive Demand for which there is a materially increased risk of non-
performance must satisfy the credit requirement specified herein before it may commit the Price 
Responsive Demand.  Credit must be maintained until such risk of non-performance is 
substantially eliminated, but may be reduced commensurate with the reduction in such risk, as 
set forth in section VI.B.3 below.   
 
For purposes of this provision, a resource for which there is a materially increased risk of 
nonperformance shall mean:  (i) a Planned Generation Capacity Resource; (ii) a Planned 
Demand Resource or an Energy Efficiency Resource; (iii) a Qualifying Transmission Upgrade; 
(iv) an existing or Planned Generation Capacity Resource located outside the PJM Region that at 
the time it is submitted in a Sell Offer has not secured firm transmission service to the border of 
the PJM Region sufficient to satisfy the deliverability requirements of the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement; (v) Price Responsive Demand to the extent the responsible PRD Provider has not 
registered PRD-eligible load at a PRD Substation level to satisfy its Nominal PRD Value 
commitment, in accordance with Reliability Assurance Agreement, Schedule 6.1; or (vi) a 
Planned DER Capacity Aggregation Resource. 
 
2. Reliability Pricing Model Auction and Price Responsive Demand Credit 
Requirement 
 
Except as provided for Credit-Limited Offers below, for any resource specified in section VI.B.1 
above, other than Price Responsive Demand, the credit requirement shall be the RPM Auction 
Credit Rate, as provided in section VI.B.4 below, times the megawatts to be offered for sale from 
such resource in an RPM Auction.  For Qualified Transmission Upgrades, the credit 
requirements shall be based on the Locational Deliverability Area in which such upgrade was to 
increase the Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit.  The RPM Auction Credit Requirement for 
each Market Participant shall be determined on a customer account basis, separately for each 
customer account of a Market Participant, and shall be the sum of the credit requirements for all 
such resources to be offered by such Market Participant in the auction or, as applicable, cleared 
by such Market Participant in the relevant auctions.  For Price Responsive Demand, the credit 
requirement shall be based on the Nominal PRD Value (stated in Unforced Capacity terms) times 
the Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate as set forth in section VI.B.5 below.  Except for 
Credit-Limited Offers, the RPM Auction Credit requirement for a Market Participant will be 
reduced for any Delivery Year to the extent less than all of such Market Participant’s offers clear 
in the Base Residual Auction or any Incremental Auction for such Delivery Year. Such reduction 
shall be proportional to the quantity, in megawatts, that failed to clear in such Delivery Year. 
 
A Sell Offer based on a Planned Generation Capacity Resource, Planned Demand Resource, 
Energy Efficiency Resource or Planned DER Capacity Aggregation Resource may be submitted 
as a Credit-Limited Offer.  A Market Participant electing this option shall specify a maximum 
amount of Unforced Capacity, in megawatts, and a maximum credit requirement, in dollars, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 5 
applicable to the Sell Offer.  A Credit-Limited Offer shall clear the RPM Auction in which it is 
submitted (to the extent it otherwise would clear based on the other offer parameters and the 
system’s need for the offered capacity) only to the extent of the lesser of:  (i) the quantity of 
Unforced Capacity that is the quotient of the division of the specified maximum credit 
requirement by the Auction Credit Rate resulting from section VI.B.4.b. below; and (ii) the 
maximum amount of Unforced Capacity specified in the Sell Offer.  For a Market Participant 
electing this alternative, the RPM Auction Credit requirement applicable prior to the posting of 
results of the auction shall be the maximum credit requirement specified in its Credit-Limited 
Offer, and the RPM Auction Credit requirement subsequent to posting of the results will be the 
Auction Credit Rate, as provided in section VI.B.4.b, c. or d. of this Attachment Q, as applicable, 
times the amount of Unforced Capacity from such Sell Offer that cleared in the auction. The 
availability and operational details of Credit-Limited Offers shall be as described in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
As set forth in section VI.B.4 below, a Market Participant's Auction Credit requirement shall be 
determined separately for each Delivery Year. 
 
3. Reduction in Credit Requirement 
 
As specified below, the RPM Auction Credit Rate may be reduced under certain circumstances 
after the auction has closed. 
 
The Price Responsive Demand credit requirement shall be reduced as and to the extent the PRD 
Provider registers PRD-eligible load at a PRD Substation level to satisfy its Nominal PRD Value 
commitment, in accordance with Reliability Assurance Agreement, Schedule 6.1. 
 
In addition, the RPM Auction Credit requirement for a Market Participant for any given Delivery 
Year shall be reduced periodically, after the Market Participant has provided PJM a written 
request for each reduction, accompanied by documentation sufficient for PJM to verify 
attainment of required milestones or satisfaction of other requirements, and PJM has verified that 
the Market Participant has successfully met progress milestones for its Capacity Resource that 
reduce the risk of non-performance, as follows:  
 
(a) For Planned Demand Resources and Energy Efficiency Resources, the RPM Auction 
Credit requirement will be reduced in direct proportion to the megawatts of such Demand 
Resource that the Resource Provider qualifies as a Capacity Resource, in accordance with the 
procedures established under the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
(b) For Existing Generation Capacity Resources located outside the PJM Region that have 
not secured sufficient firm transmission to the border of the PJM Region prior to the auction in 
which such resource is first offered, the RPM Auction Credit requirement shall be reduced in 
direct proportion to the megawatts of firm transmission service secured by the Market Participant 
that qualify such resource under the deliverability requirements of the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 6 
(c) For Planned Generation Capacity Resources located in the PJM Region, the RPM 
Auction Credit requirement shall be reduced as the Capacity Resource attains the milestones 
stated in the following table and as further described in the PJM Manuals.  
 
Milestones 
Increment of reduction 
from initial RPM Auction 
Credit requirement  
Effective Date of Interconnection Service Agreement, 
Generation Interconnection Agreement or Wholesale 
Market Participation Agreement  
50% 
Financial Close 15% 
Full Notice to Proceed and Commencement of 
Construction (e.g., footers poured) 5% 
Main Power Generating Equipment Delivered 5% 
Commencement of Interconnection Service 25% 
 
For externally financed projects, the Market Participant must submit with its request for 
reduction a sworn, notarized certification of a duly authorized independent engineer for the 
Financial Close, Full Notice to Proceed and Commencement of Construction, and Main Power 
Generating Equipment Delivered milestones.  
 
For internally financed projects, the Market Participant must submit with its request for reduction 
a sworn, notarized certification of a duly authorized officer of the Market Participant for the 
Financial Close milestone and either a duly authorized independent engineer or Professional 
Engineer for the Full Notice to Proceed and Commencement of Construction and the Main 
Power Generating Equipment Delivered milestones. 
 
The required certifications must be in a form acceptable to PJM, certifying that the engineer or 
officer, as applicable, has personal knowledge, or has engaged in a diligent inquiry to determine, 
that the milestone has been achieved and that, based on its review of the relevant project 
information, the engineer or officer, as applicable, is not aware of any information that could 
reasonably cause it to believe that the Capacity Resource will not be in-service by the beginning 
of the applicable Delivery Year.  The Market Participant shall, if requested by PJM, supply to 
PJM on a confidential basis all records and documents relating to the engineer’s and/or officer’s 