[ATTACHMENT DD - Part 1 of 2]

Attachment DD, ection 9(b). 
 
d. Failure of an Electric Distributor to maintain the required underfrequency relays 
in violation of Operating Agreement, Schedule 7, section 2. 
 
e. Failure to submit data to the Office of the Interconnection in conformance with 
RAA, Schedule 11. 
 
f.     Failure of Black Start Units to fulfill their commitment to provide Black Start 
Service under Tariff, Schedule 6A. 
 
2. Required Referral to Commission of Perceived Market Design Flaws and 
Recommended Tariff Changes:   
 
The Market Monitoring Unit is to make a Referral to the Commission in all instances where the 
Market Monitoring Unit has reason to believe market design flaws exist that it believes could 
effectively be remedied by rule or PJM Tariff changes. The Market Monitoring Unit must limit 
distribution of its identifications and recommendations to PJM and to the Commission in the 
event it believes broader dissemination could lead to exploitation, with an explanation of why 
further dissemination should be avoided at that time. 
 
All Referrals to the Commission relating to perceived market design flaws and recommended 
PJM Tariff changes related thereto are to be in writing, whether transmitted electronically, by 
fax, mail, or courier.  The Market Monitoring Unit may alert the Commission orally in advance 
of the written Referral. 
 
The Referral should be addressed to the Commission’s Director of the Office of Energy Market 
Regulation, with copies directed to both the Director of the Office of Enforcement and the 
General Counsel. 
 
The Referral must include, but need not be limited to, the following information: 
 
 a. A detailed narrative describing the perceived market design flaw[s]; 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 11 
 b. The consequences of the perceived market design flaws, including, if known, an 
estimate of economic impact on the market; 
 
 c. The rule or PJM Tariff revisions that the Market Monitoring Unit believes could 
remedy the perceived market design flaw; and 
 
 d. Any other information the Market Monitoring Unit believes is relevant and may 
be helpful to the Commission. 
 
Following a Referral to the Commission, the Market Monitoring Unit must continue to notify 
and inform the Commission of any additional information regarding the perceived market design 
flaw, its effects on the market, any additional or modified observations concerning the rule or 
PJM Tariff changes that could remedy the perceived design flaw.  The Market Monitoring Unit 
must also notify and inform the Commission of any recommendations made by the Market 
Monitoring Unit to PJM, stakeholders, Market Participants or State Commissions regarding the 
perceived design flaw, and any actions taken by PJM regarding the perceived design flaw. 
 
 J. Additional Market Monitoring Unit Authority:  In addition to notifications and 
Referrals under sections IV.I.1 and IV.I.2 above, respectively, the Market Monitoring Unit shall 
have the additional authority described in this section, as follows:   
 
  1. Engage in discussions regarding issues relating to the PJM Market Rules 
or FERC Market Rules, in order to understand such issues and to attempt to resolve informally 
such issues or other issues. 
 
  2. Excepting matters governed by section IV.I above, file reports and make 
appropriate regulatory filings with Authorized Government Agencies to address design flaws, 
structural problems, compliance, market power, or other issues, and seek such appropriate action 
or make such recommendations as the Market Monitoring Unit shall deem appropriate. The 
Market Monitoring Unit shall make such filings or reports publicly available and provide 
simultaneous notice of the existence of reports to the PJM members and PJM, subject to 
protection of confidential information. 
 
  3. Consult with Authorized Government Agencies concerning the need for 
specific investigations or monitoring activities. 
 
  4. Consider and evaluate a broad range of additional enforcement 
mechanisms that may be necessary to assure compliance with the PJM Market Rules.  As part of 
this evaluation process, the Market Monitoring Unit shall consult with Authorized Government 
Agencies and other interested parties. 
 
  5. Report directly to the Commission staff on any matter. 
 
 K. Confidentiality:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 12 
  1. All discussions between the Market Monitoring Unit and Market 
Participants concerning the informal resolution of compliance issues initially shall remain 
confidential, subject to the provisions in subsection IV.K.3 below. 
 
  2. Except as provided in subsection IV.K.3 below, in exercising its authority 
to make Referrals, the Market Monitoring Unit shall observe the confidentiality provisions of the 
PJM Operating Agreement and Tariff, Attachment M - Appendix. 
 
  3. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan or the PJM 
Operating Agreement and Tariff, Attachment M - Appendix, the Market Monitoring Unit:  (a) 
may disclose any information to the Commission in connection with the reporting required under 
sections IV.I.1 and IV.I.2, above, of this Plan, provided that any written submission to the 
Commission that includes information that is confidential under the PJM Operating Agreement 
or Tariff, Attachment M - Appendix shall be accompanied by a request that the information be 
maintained as confidential, and (b) may make reports or other regulatory filings pursuant to this 
section IV.J or section V, below, of this Plan if accompanied by a request that information that is 
confidential under the PJM Operating Agreement or Tariffm, Attachment M - Appendix be 
maintained as confidential. 
 
V. INFORMATION AND DATA  
 
 A. Primary Information Sources:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall rely primarily 
upon data and information that are customarily gathered in the normal course of business of PJM 
and such publicly available data and information that may be helpful to accomplish the 
objectives of the Plan, including, but not limited to, (1) information gathered or generated by 
PJM in connection with its scheduling and dispatch functions, its operation of the transmission 
grid in the PJM Region or its determination of Locational Marginal Prices, (2) information 
required to be provided to PJM in accordance with the PJM Market Rules and (3) any other 
information that is generated by, provided to, or in the possession of PJM.  The foregoing 
information shall be provided to the Market Monitoring Unit as soon as practicable, including, 
but not limited to, real-time access to scheduling, dispatch and other operational data. 
 
 B. Other Information Requests:  If other information is required from a Market 
Participant, the Market Monitoring Unit shall comply with the following procedures: 
 
  1. Request for Additional Data:  If the Market Monitoring Unit determines 
that additional information is required to accomplish the objectives of the Plan, the Market 
Monitoring Unit may make reasonable requests of the entities possessing such information to 
provide the information.  Any such request for additional information will be accompanied by an 
explanation of the need for the information and the Market Monitoring Unit’s inability to acquire 
the information from alternate sources. 
 
  2. Failure to Comply with Request:  The information request recipient 
shall provide the Market Monitoring Unit with all information that is reasonably requested.  If an 
information request recipient does not provide requested information within a reasonable time, 
the Market Monitoring Unit may initiate such regulatory or judicial proceedings to compel the 
production of such information as may be available and deemed appropriate by the Market 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 13 
Monitoring Unit, including petitioning the Commission for an order that the information is 
necessary and directing its production.  An information request recipient shall have the right to 
respond to any such petitions and participate in the proceedings thereon. 
 
  3. Information Concerning Possible Undue Preference:  Notwithstanding 
subsection V.B.1 above, if the Market Monitoring Unit requests information relating to possible 
undue preference between Transmission Owners and their affiliates, Transmission Owners and 
their affiliates must provide requested information to the Market Monitoring Unit within a 
reasonable time, as specified by the Market Monitoring Unit; provided, however, that an 
information request recipient may petition the Commission for an order limiting all or part of the 
information request, in which event the Commission’s order on the petition shall determine the 
extent of the information request recipient’s obligation to comply with the disputed portion of the 
information request. 
 
  4. Confidentiality:  Except as provided in section IV.K.3, above, of this 
Plan, the Market Monitoring Unit shall observe the confidentiality provisions of the PJM 
Operating Agreement and Tariff, Attachment M - Appendix with respect to information provided 
under this section if an entity providing the information designates it as confidential. 
 
 C. Complaints:  Any Market Participant or other interested entity may at any time 
submit information to the Market Monitoring Unit concerning any matter relevant to the Market 
Monitoring Unit’s responsibilities under the Plan, or may request the Market Monitoring Unit to 
make inquiry or take any action contemplated by the Plan.  Such submissions or requests may be 
made on a confidential basis.  The Market Monitoring Unit may request further information from 
such Market Participant or other entity and make such inquiry as the Market Monitoring Unit 
considers appropriate.  The Market Monitoring Unit shall not be required to act with respect to 
any specific complaint unless the Market Monitoring Unit determines action to be warranted. 
 
 D. Collection and Availability of Information:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
regularly collect and maintain under its sole control the information that it deems necessary for 
implementing the Plan. A Market Participant shall have sole responsibility to make available to 
the Market Monitoring Unit any information that the Market Monitoring Unit deems reasonably 
necessary to document, verify or investigate a claim or request by such Market Participant. All 
load reduction data are subject to audit by the Market Monitoring Unit. The Market Monitoring 
Unit shall make publicly available a detailed description of the categories of data collected by the 
Market Monitoring Unit.  To the extent it deems appropriate and upon specific request, the 
Market Monitoring Unit may release other data to the public, consistent with the obligations of 
the Market Monitoring Unit and PJM to protect confidential, proprietary, or commercially 
sensitive information as provided in Tariff, Attachment M - Appendix and the PJM Operating 
Agreement. 
 
 E. Access to Personnel and Facilities:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall have 
access to PJM personnel and facilities as necessary to perform the functions set forth in this Plan.  
If the Market Monitoring Unit seeks data or other information from PJM personnel, it may 
contact the appropriate personnel that may be in possession of such data or information.  If the 
Market Monitoring Unit seeks a formal opinion or position on a matter from PJM, it shall contact 
the PJM Liaison or appropriate senior management official to provide such opinion or position. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 14 
 
 F. Market Monitoring Indices:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall develop, and 
shall refine on the basis of experience, indices or other standards to evaluate the information that 
it collects and maintains.  Prior to using any such index or standard, the Market Monitoring Unit 
shall provide PJM members, Authorized Government Agencies, and other interested parties an 
opportunity to comment on the appropriateness of such index or standard.  Following such 
opportunity for comments, the decision to use any index or standard shall be solely that of the 
Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
 G. Evaluation of Information:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall evaluate, and 
shall refine on the basis of experience, the information it collects and maintains, or that it 
receives from other sources, regarding the operation of the PJM Markets or other matters 
relevant to the Plan.  As so evaluated, such information shall provide the basis for reports or 
other actions of the Market Monitoring Unit under this Plan. 
 
VI. REPORTS 
 
 A. Reports:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall prepare and submit 
contemporaneously to the Commission, the State Commissions, the PJM Board, PJM 
Management and to the PJM Members Committee, annual state-of-the-market reports on the 
state of competition within, and the efficiency of, the PJM Markets, and quarterly reports that 
update selected portions of the annual report and which may focus on certain topics of particular 
interest to the Market Monitoring Unit. The quarterly reports shall not be as extensive as the 
annual reports. In its annual, quarterly and other reports, the Market Monitoring Unit may make 
recommendations regarding any matter within its purview.  The annual reports shall, and the 
quarterly reports may, address, among other things, the extent to which prices in the PJM 
Markets reflect competitive outcomes, the structural competitiveness of the PJM Markets, the 
effectiveness of bid mitigation rules, and the effectiveness of the PJM Markets in signaling 
infrastructure investment.  These annual reports shall, and the quarterly reports may include 
recommendations as to whether changes to the Market Monitoring Unit or the Plan are required.  
In addition, the Market Monitoring Unit shall provide to the PJM Board, in a timely manner, 
copies of any reports submitted to Authorized Government Agencies pursuant to Section VI.B.  
The Market Monitoring Unit may from time-to-time prepare and submit additional reports to the 
Commission, the PJM Board and PJM Members Committee as the Market Monitoring Unit may 
deem appropriate in the discharge of its responsibilities under the Plan. 
 
 B. Reports to Authorized Government Agencies:  The Market Monitoring Unit 
shall contemporaneously submit to the Authorized Government Agencies the reports provided to 
the PJM Board pursuant to section VI.A above.  Subject to applicable law and regulation and any 
other applicable provisions of the PJM Operating Agreement or PJM Tariff, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall, to the extent practicable, respond to reasonable requests by Authorized 
Government Agencies other than the Commission for reports, subject to protection of 
confidential, proprietary and commercially sensitive information, the protection of the 
confidentiality of ongoing inquiries and monitoring activities, and the availability of resources. 
 
 C. Public Reports:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall prepare a detailed public 
annual report about the Market Monitoring Unit’s activities, subject to protection of confidential, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 15 
proprietary, and commercially sensitive information and the protection of the confidentiality of 
ongoing investigations and monitoring activities.  The Market Monitoring Unit may, instead of 
filing a separate report, include the referenced material in a report filed pursuant to section VI.A 
above. 
 
 D. State Commission Tailored Requests for Information:  Subject to the 
confidentiality restrictions of Tariff, Attachment M – Appendix, section I.D. and Operating 
Agreement, section 18.17.4, the Market Monitoring Unit may provide, at its discretion, 
information regarding general market trends and the performance of the PJM Markets in 
response to a State Commission’s tailored request for information unless the requested 
information is designed to aid state enforcement actions or impinges upon the confidentiality 
rules of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with regard to Referrals.   
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall provide to any Market Participant whose information has been 
requested, or who may be affected by the release of the requested information, written notice, 
which shall include electronic communication, of a State Commission’s tailored request for 
information as soon as possible, but not later than two (2) Business Days after the receipt of the 
request.  If the request for tailored information seeks to obtain Confidential Information, the 
requirements and limitations of Tariff, Attachment M-Appendix, section I.D. shall apply.  If the 
request for tailored information seeks to obtain information that is not Confidential Information, 
if the Market Participant whose information has been requested or who may be affected by the 
release of the requested information objects to the request or any portion thereof, it shall be given 
the opportunity to contest the request and to provide a contextual explanation to supplement the 
information produced by the Market Monitoring Unit so long as the providing of the contextual 
explanation does not unduly delay the release of the information to the State Commission.  To 
register its objection, the Market Participant must request, in writing, within four (4) Business 
Days following the Market Monitoring Unit’s receipt of the request, a conference with the State 
Commission to resolve differences concerning the scope or timing of the tailored request for 
information; provided, however, nothing herein shall require the State Commission to participate 
in any conference. Any party to the conference may seek assistance from FERC staff in 
resolution of the dispute or terminate the conference process at any time. Should such conference 
be refused or terminated by any participant or should such conference not resolve the dispute, 
then the Market Participant whose information has been requested or who may be affected by the 
release of the requested information, may file a complaint with the FERC pursuant to Rule 206 
objecting to the request for tailored information within ten (10) Business Days following receipt 
of written notice from any conference participant terminating such conference. Any complaints 
filed at the FERC objecting to a particular request for tailored information shall be designated by 
the party as a “fast track” complaint and each party shall bear its own costs in connection with 
such FERC proceeding.  
 
If no complaint challenging the request for tailored information is filed within the ten (10) 
Business Day period defined above, the Market Monitoring Unit shall utilize its best efforts to 
respond to the request for tailored information promptly. If a complaint is filed, and the 
Commission does not act on that complaint within ninety (90) days, the complaint shall be 
deemed denied and the Market Monitoring Unit shall use its best efforts to respond to the request 
for tailored information promptly. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Market Monitoring Unit 
determines, in its discretion, that responding to the State Commission’s request for tailored 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 16 
information is unreasonably burdensome and/or will interfere with the Market Monitoring Unit’s 
ability to carry out its core functions based on time and resource availability of its staff, the 
Market Monitoring Unit may decline such a request.   
 
 E. MMU Staff Availability:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall make one or more 
staff members available for regular conference calls, which may be attended telephonically or in 
person, by FERC Commission staff, State Commission staff, representatives of PJM, and Market 
Participants.  
 
VII. AUDIT 
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall annually (a) document, and advise PJM of, Market 
Monitoring Unit’s actual expenses for the prior year by no later than March 15, and provide a 
copy of such documentation to the Finance Committee, and (b) provide audited financial 
statements of the Market Monitoring Unit of revenues and expenses related solely to the services 
provided to PJM, audited by a nationally recognized independent third party auditor selected by 
the Market Monitor, by no later than May 15.  The audit report shall include, but not be limited 
to, a review of whether MMU expenditures were for purposes consistent with the functions set 
forth in this Plan and shall include documentation at a level of supporting detail consistent with 
that required in section III.E above. The audit report shall be provided to the PJM Board, Finance 
Committee, Market Monitoring Unit, OPSI, OPSI Advisory Committee, PJM and PJM members 
subject to the protection of confidential information.  The requirement that the Market 
Monitoring  Unit annually document and advise PJM of its expenses for the prior year is also 
found in Tariff, Schedile 9-MMU, subsection (e). 
 
VIII. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 
 
Any liability of PJM arising under or in relation to this Plan shall be subject to this section VIII.  
The PJM Entities shall not be liable to any Market Participant, any party to the PJM Operating 
Agreement, any customer under the PJM Tariff, or any other person subject to this Plan in 
respect of any matter described in or contemplated by this Plan, as the same may be amended or 
supplemented from time to time, including but not limited to liability for any financial loss, loss 
of economic advantage, opportunity cost, or actual or consequential damages of any kind 
resulting from or attributable to any act or omission of any of the PJM Entities under this Plan.  
Neither the OPSI Advisory Committee nor any State Commission (including commissioners and 
staff persons) shall be liable to any person under this Plan for any financial loss, loss of 
economic advantage, opportunity cost, or actual or consequential damages associated with 
performing any of its functions or duties under this Plan. 
 
IX. ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
 
Notwithstanding any provision of the PJM Tariff or the PJM Operating Agreement, PJM and the 
Market Monitoring Unit shall not be required to use the dispute resolution procedures in the PJM 
Tariff or the PJM Operating Agreement in carrying out its duties and responsibilities under this 
Plan.  However, nothing herein shall prevent PJM or any other person from requesting the use of 
the dispute resolution procedure set forth in the PJM Tariff or the PJM Operating Agreement, as 
applicable. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 17 
 
X. EFFECTIVE DATE 
 
This Plan shall be effective as of August 1, 2008. 
 
XI. CODE OF ETHICS 
 
The Market Monitoring Unit and its employees, as applicable, shall adhere to the following Code 
of Ethics, which is reproduced from Section 17 of PJM Rate Schedule No. 46, Market 
Monitoring Services Agreement By And Between PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. And Monitoring 
Analytics, LLC entered into on December 18, 2007, and filed with the Commission to comply 
with order of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Docket Nos. EL07-56 and EL07-58 et 
al., issued March 21, 2008, 122 FERC ¶ 61,257. 
 
 A. Conflicts of Interest:  
 
1. The Market Monitoring Unit will use its best efforts to assure that all of its 
employees comply with this Code of Ethics and shall take appropriate disciplinary actions 
against employees who violate the policy. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit and its employees assisting on market 
monitoring matters for PJM, and their spouses and dependent children, may not have a direct 
equity or other financial interest in a Market Participant or in a parent, subsidiary, or affiliate of a 
Market Participant. (The term “direct” is meant to exclude investments such as mutual funds in 
which a person has no direct control, with the exception of sector-specific mutual funds.) 
 
3. The Market Monitoring Unit and its employees assisting on market 
monitoring matters for PJM, may not undertake a matter for a third party where such 
representation would require disclosure of market-sensitive or proprietary information of PJM. 
 
 B. Prohibited Engagements and Conduct by the Market Monitoring Unit:  
 
1. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees will be engaged to 
provide advice to, or undertake a matter for or on behalf of, any entity on any entity’s 
participation in the PJM Markets, except as otherwise authorized under subsections 3 and 5 
below. 
 
2. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees will be engaged by 
any entity in any litigation, open regulatory docket, alternative dispute resolution procedure, or 
arbitration with PJM, except as otherwise authorized under subsections 3 and 5 below.  
 
3. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees will be engaged to 
appear on behalf of or against any entity before a state regulatory commission within the PJM 
Region in any new engagement in the electricity business except as authorized under the PJM 
Tariff, as requested by a state regulatory commission, or as otherwise required by law.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 18 
4. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees shall accept any 
engagement by any market participant outside of the PJM Region that would require the Market 
Monitoring Unit to take a position adverse to any PJM member or inconsistent with any position 
taken by the Market Monitoring Unit in the PJM Region. 
 
5. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees will be engaged to 
appear on behalf of or against any entity before the Commission on any matter within the PJM 
Region in any new engagement in the electricity business except as authorized under the PJM 
Tariff, as requested by the Commission, or as otherwise required by law. 
 
6. Before the Market Monitoring Unit accepts any engagement on behalf of 
or against an Interested Party, it must inform the PJM General Counsel and the PJM Board of 
such potential engagement and provide the PJM Board with an opportunity to state its objection 
to such representation on the ground the engagement would present a conflict of interest or result 
in the material appearance of conflict.  At the discretion of the Market Monitoring Unit, the 
Market Monitoring Unit may notify the PJM General Counsel that the proposed engagement is 
confidential and request that the General Counsel disclose the proposed engagement only to a 
PJM Board subcommittee in a manner which limits the disclosure of nonpublic information.  
Within seven (7) Business Days of being informed of the potential engagement by the Market 
Monitoring Unit, the PJM Board shall state any objection to such potential engagement.  If the 
Market Monitoring Unit disagrees with the PJM Board’s determination regarding the potential 
engagement by the Market Monitoring Unit, the Parties shall jointly engage the Commission’s 
Dispute Resolution Service to determine whether the engagement would present a conflict of 
interest or result in the material appearance of a conflict.  Unless the Commission’s Dispute 
Resolution Service finds no conflict of interest the Market Monitoring Unit shall be precluded 
from accepting the challenged engagement.  For these purposes, the term “Interested Party” 
means (x) a Market Participant; (v) a state regulatory commission within the PJM Region; or (z) 
a person or entity with a significant direct financial interest in the organization, governance or 
operation of PJM but shall not include PJM itself. 
 
7. Employees of the Market Monitoring Unit shall not accept gifts, 
payments, favors, meals, transportation, entertainment, or services (individually, “Gift,” and 
collectively, “Gifts”), of other than nominal value within a calendar year from PJM, Authorized 
Government Agencies, any market participant, contractor, supplier or vendor to the Market 
Monitoring Unit. Except that “Gifts” shall not include any of the foregoing that is generally 
provided to the attendees of business meetings (e.g. PJM stakeholder meetings). Gifts not 
exceeding One Hundred Fifty Dollars ($150) shall be deemed to be of “nominal value.”  
Similarly, neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor any employee of the Market Monitoring Unit 
shall offer any Gift to any public official or Market Participant unless such Gifts: are legal; not 
offered for specific gain or reciprocal action; follow generally accepted ethical standards; and are 
of nominal value. 
 
8. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees shall serve as an 
officer, employee or partner of a Market Participant. 
 
9. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees shall engage in any 
transactions in the PJM markets other than the performance of their duties under the PJM Tariff. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 19 
 
10. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees shall be 
compensated, other than by PJM, for any expert witness testimony or commercial services, either 
to PJM or to any other party, in connection with legal or regulatory proceeding or commercial 
transaction relating to PJM or to PJM’s markets. 
 
11. Employees of the Market Monitoring Unit must advise their supervisor(s) in 
the event they seek employment with a Market Participant, and must disqualify themselves from 
participating in any matter that would have an effect on the financial interest of the Market 
Participant while still in the employ of the Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
 C. Compliance with All Applicable Laws:  The Market Monitoring Unit will use 
its best efforts to assure the compliance of the Market Monitoring Unit and its employees with all 
applicable laws, including but not limited to those referenced in the PJM Code of Conduct. 
 
XII. NOTICE TO MARKET PARTICIPANTS 
 
When the Tariff requires the MMU to provide written notice to or communication with a Market 
Participant, such notice or communication shall include, but not be limited to, a letter, email or 
posting to a Market Participant’s account in the internet-based application designated by the 
Market Monitoring Unit.  
  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
 
I. CONFIDENTIALITY OF DATA AND INFORMATION 
 
A. Party Access: 
 
1. No Member shall have a right hereunder to receive or review any documents, data or 
other information of another Member, including documents, data or other information provided 
to the Market Monitoring Unit, to the extent such documents, data or information have been 
designated as confidential pursuant to the procedures adopted by the Market Monitoring Unit or 
to the extent that they have been designated as confidential by such other Member; provided, 
however, a Member may receive and review any composite documents, data and other 
information that may be developed based on such confidential documents, data or information if 
the composite does not disclose any individual Member’s confidential data or information. 
 
2. Except as may be provided in this Appendix, the Plan, the PJM Operating Agreement or 
in the PJM Tariff, the Market Monitoring Unit shall not disclose to PJM Members or to third 
parties, any documents, data, or other information of a Member or entity applying for 
Membership, to the extent such documents, data, or other information has been designated 
confidential pursuant to the procedures adopted by the Market Monitoring Unit or by such 
Member or entity applying for membership; provided that nothing contained herein shall prohibit 
the Market Monitoring Unit from providing any such confidential information to its agents, 
representatives, or contractors to the extent that such person or entity is bound by an obligation 
to maintain such confidentiality. 
 
The Market Monitoring Unit, its designated agents, representatives, and contractors shall 
maintain as confidential the electronic tag (“e-Tag”) data of an e-Tag Author or Balancing 
Authority (defined as those terms are used in FERC Order No. 771) to the same extent as 
Member data under this section I.  Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the Market 
Monitoring Unit from sharing with the market monitor of another Regional Transmission 
Organization (“RTO”), Independent System Operator (“ISO”), upon their request, the e-Tags of 
an e-Tag Author or Balancing Authority for intra-PJM Region transactions and interchange 
transactions scheduled to flow into, out of or through the PJM Region, to the extent such market 
monitor has requested such information as part of its investigation of possible market violations 
or market design flaws, and to the extent that such market monitor is bound by a tariff provision 
requiring that the e-Tag data be maintained as confidential, or in the absence of a tariff 
requirement governing confidentiality, a written agreement with the Market Monitoring Unit 
consistent with FERC Order No. 771, and any clarifying orders and implementing regulations.  
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall collect and use confidential information only in connection 
with its authority under this Appendix, the Plan, the PJM Operating Agreement or in the PJM 
Tariff and the retention of such information shall be in accordance with the Office of the 
Interconnection’s data retention policies. 
 
3. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Market Monitoring Unit from releasing a 
Member’s confidential data or information to a third party provided that the Member has 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 2 
delivered to the Market Monitoring Unit specific, written authorization for such release setting 
forth the data or information to be released, to whom such release is authorized, and the period of 
time for which such release shall be authorized. The Market Monitoring Unit shall limit the 
release of a Member’s confidential data or information to that specific authorization received 
from the Member. Nothing herein shall prohibit a Member from withdrawing such authorization 
upon written notice to the Market Monitoring Unit, who shall cease such release as soon as 
practicable after receipt of such withdrawal notice. 
 
4. Reciprocal provisions to this section I hereof, delineating the confidentiality requirements 
of the Office of the Interconnection and PJM members, are set forth in Operating Agreement, 
section 18.17.  
 
B. Required Disclosure:  
 
1. Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing section to the contrary, and subject to the 
provisions of section I.C below, if the Market Monitoring Unit is required by applicable law, 
order, or in the course of administrative or judicial proceedings, to disclose to third parties, 
information that is otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to the PJM Tariff, 
PJM Operating Agreement, Tariff, Attachment M or this Appendix, the Market Monitoring Unit 
may make disclosure of such information; provided, however, that as soon as the Market 
Monitoring Unit learns of the disclosure requirement and prior to making disclosure, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall notify the affected Member or Members of the requirement and the terms 
thereof and the affected Member or Members may direct, at their sole discretion and cost, any 
challenge to or defense against the disclosure requirement. The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
cooperate with such affected Members to the maximum extent practicable to minimize the 
disclosure of the information consistent with applicable law. The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
cooperate with the affected Members to obtain proprietary or confidential treatment of such 
information by the person to whom such information is disclosed prior to any such disclosure. 
 
2. Nothing in this section I shall prohibit or otherwise limit the Market Monitoring Unit’s 
use of information covered herein if such information was: (i) previously known to the Market 
Monitoring Unit without an obligation of confidentiality; (ii) independently developed by or for 
the Office of the Interconnection and/or the Market Monitoring Unit using non-confidential 
information; (iii) acquired by the Office of the Interconnection and/or the Market Monitoring 
Unit from a third party which is not, to the Office of the Interconnection’s or Market Monitoring 
Unit’s knowledge, under an obligation of confidence with respect to such information; (iv) which 
is or becomes publicly available other than through a manner inconsistent with this section I. 
 
3. The Market Monitoring Unit shall impose on any contractors retained to provide 
technical support or otherwise to assist with the implementation of the Plan or this Appendix a 
contractual duty of confidentiality consistent with the Plan or this Appendix. A Member shall not 
be obligated to provide confidential or proprietary information to any contractor that does not 
assume such a duty of confidentiality, and the Market Monitoring Unit shall not provide any 
such information to any such contractor without the express written permission of the Member 
providing the information. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 3 
C. Disclosure to FERC and CFTC:  
 
1. Notwithstanding anything in this section I to the contrary, if the FERC, the Commodity 
Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) or the staff of those commissions, during the course of 
an investigation or otherwise, requests information from the Market Monitoring Unit that is 
otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to the PJM Tariff, the PJM Operating 
Agreement, the Plan or this Appendix, the Market Monitoring Unit shall provide the requested 
information to the FERC, CFTC or their staff, within the time provided for in the request for 
information. In providing the information to the FERC or its staff, the Market Monitoring Unit 
may request, consistent with 18 C.F.R. §§ 1b.20 and 388.112, or to the CFTC or its staff, the 
Market Monitoring Unit may request, consistent with 17 C.F.R. §§ 11.3 and 145.9, that the 
information be treated as confidential and non-public by the respective commission and its staff 
and that the information be withheld from public disclosure. The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
promptly notify any affected Member(s) if the Market Monitoring Unit receives from the FERC, 
CFTC or their staff, written notice that the commission has decided to release publicly or has 
asked for comment on whether such commission should release publicly, confidential 
information previously provided to a commission Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
2. The foregoing section I.C.1 shall not apply to requests for production of information 
under Subpart D of the FERC’s Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR Part 385) in 
proceedings before FERC and its administrative law judges. In all such proceedings, the Office 
of the Interconnection and/or the Market Monitoring Unit shall follow the procedures in section 
I.B. 
 
D. Disclosure to Authorized Commissions:  
 
1. Notwithstanding anything in this section I to the contrary, the Market Monitoring Unit 
shall disclose confidential information, otherwise required to be maintained in confidence 
pursuant to the PJM Tariff, the PJM Operating Agreement, the Plan or this Appendix, to an 
Authorized Commission under the following conditions: 
 
(i) The Authorized Commission has provided the FERC with a properly executed 
Certification in the form attached to the PJM Operating Agreement as Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 10A. Upon receipt of the Authorized Commission’s Certification, the FERC shall 
provide public notice of the Authorized Commission’s  filing pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 385.2009. 
If any interested party disputes the accuracy and adequacy of the representations contained in the 
Authorized Commission’s Certification, that party may file a protest with the FERC within 14 
days of the date of such notice, pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 385.211. The Authorized Commission 
may file a response to any such protest within seven days. Each party shall bear its own costs in 
connection with such a protest proceeding. If there are material changes in law that affect the 
accuracy and adequacy of the representations in the Certification filed with the FERC, the 
Authorized Commission shall, within thirty (30) days, submit an amended Certification 
identifying such changes. Any such amended Certification shall be subject to the same 
procedures for comment and review by the FERC as set forth above in this paragraph. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 4 
(ii) Neither the Office of the Interconnection nor the Market Monitoring Unit may 
disclose data to an Authorized Commission during the FERC’s consideration of the Certification 
and any filed protests. If the FERC does not act upon an Authorized Commission’s Certification 
within 90 days of the date of filing, the Certification shall be deemed approved and the 
Authorized Commission shall be permitted to receive confidential information pursuant to this 
Section I. In the event that an interested party protests the Authorized Commission’s 
Certification and the FERC approves the Certification, that party may not challenge any 
Information Request made by the Authorized Commission on the grounds that the Authorized 
Commission is unable to protect the confidentiality of the information requested, in the absence 
of a showing of changed circumstances. 
 
(iii) Any confidential information provided to an Authorized Commission pursuant to 
this section I shall not be further disclosed by the recipient Authorized Commission except by 
order of the FERC. 
 
(iv) The Market Monitoring Unit shall be expressly entitled to rely upon such 
Authorized Commission Certifications in providing confidential information to the Authorized 
Commission, and shall in no event be liable, or subject to damages or claims of any kind or 
nature hereunder, due to the ineffectiveness or inaccuracy of such Authorized Commission 
Certifications. 
 
(v) The Authorized Commission may provide confidential information obtained from 
the Market Monitoring Unit to such of its employees, attorneys and contractors as needed to 
examine or handle that information in the course and scope of their work on behalf of the 
Authorized Commission, provided that (a) the Authorized Commission has internal procedures 
in place, pursuant to the Certification, to ensure that each person receiving such information 
agrees to protect the confidentiality of such information (such employees, attorneys or 
contractors to be defined hereinafter as “Authorized Persons”); (b) the Authorized Commission 
provides, pursuant to the Certification, a list of such Authorized Persons to the Office of the 
Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit and updates such list, as necessary, every ninety 
(90) days; and (c) any third-party contractors provided access to confidential information sign a 
nondisclosure agreement in the form attached to the PJM Operating Agreement as Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 10 before being provided access to any such confidential information. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit may, in the course of discussions with an Authorized 
Person, orally disclose information otherwise required to be maintained in confidence, without 
the need for a prior Information Request. Such oral disclosures shall provide enough information 
to enable the Authorized Person or the Authorized Commission with which that Authorized 
Person is associated to determine whether additional Information Requests are appropriate. The 
Market Monitoring Unit will not make any written or electronic disclosures of confidential 
information to the Authorized Person pursuant to this section I.D.2. In any such discussions, the 
Market Monitoring Unit shall ensure that the individual or individuals receiving such 
confidential information are Authorized Persons as defined herein, orally designate confidential 
information that is disclosed, and refrain from identifying any specific Affected Member whose 
information is disclosed. The Market Monitoring Unit shall also be authorized to assist 
Authorized Persons in interpreting confidential information that is disclosed. The Market 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 5 
Monitoring Unit shall provide any Affected Member with oral notice of any oral disclosure 
immediately, but not later than one (1) Business Day after the oral disclosure. Such oral notice to 
the Affected Member shall include the substance of the oral disclosure, but shall not reveal any 
confidential information of any other Member and must be received by the Affected Member 
before the name of the Affected Member is released to the Authorized Person; provided 
however, disclosure of the identity of the Affected Party must be made to the Authorized 
Commission with which the Authorized Person is associated within two (2) Business Days of the 
initial oral disclosure. 
 
3. As regards Information Requests: 
 
(i) Information Requests to the Office of the Interconnection and/or Market 
Monitoring Unit by an Authorized Commission shall be in writing, which shall include 
electronic communications, addressed to the Market Monitoring Unit, and shall: (a) describe the 
information sought in sufficient detail to allow a response to the Information Request; (b) 
provide a general description of the purpose of the Information Request; (c) state the time period 
for which confidential information is requested; and (d) re-affirm that only Authorized Persons 
shall have access to the confidential information requested. The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
provide an Affected Member with written notice, which shall include electronic communication, 
of an Information Request by an Authorized Commission as soon as possible, but not later than 
two (2) Business Days after the receipt of the Information Request. 
 
(ii) Subject to the provisions of section I.D.3(iii) below, the Market Monitoring Unit 
shall supply confidential information to the Authorized Commission in response to any 
Information Request within five (5) Business Days of the receipt of the Information Request, to 
the extent that the requested confidential information can be made available within such period; 
provided however, that in no event shall confidential information be released prior to the end of 
the fourth (4th) Business Day without the express consent of the Affected Member. To the extent 
that the Market Monitoring Unit cannot reasonably prepare and deliver the requested confidential 
information within such five (5) day period, it shall, within such period, provide the Authorized 
Commission with a written schedule for the provision of such remaining confidential 
information. Upon providing confidential information to the Authorized Commission, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall either provide a copy of the confidential information to the Affected 
Member(s), or provide a listing of the confidential information disclosed; provided, however, 
that the Market Monitoring Unit shall not reveal any Member’s confidential information to any 
other Member. 
 
(iii) Notwithstanding section I.D.3(ii), above, should the Office of the Interconnection, 
the Market Monitoring Unit or an Affected Member object to an Information Request or any 
portion thereof, any of them may, within four (4) Business Days following the Market 
Monitoring Unit’s receipt of the Information Request, request, in writing, a conference with the 
Authorized Commission to resolve differences concerning the scope or timing of the Information 
Request; provided, however, nothing herein shall require the Authorized Commission to 
participate in any conference. Any party to the conference may seek assistance from FERC staff 
in resolution of the dispute or terminate the conference process at any time. Should such 
conference be refused or terminated by any participant or should such conference not resolve the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 6 
dispute, then the Office of the Interconnection, Market Monitoring Unit, or the Affected Member 
may file a complaint with the FERC pursuant to Rule 206 objecting to the Information Request 
within ten (10) Business Days following receipt of written notice from any conference 
participant terminating such conference. Any complaints filed at the FERC objecting to a 
particular Information Request shall be designated by the party as a “fast track” complaint and 
each party shall bear its own costs in connection with such FERC proceeding. The grounds for 
such a complaint shall be limited to the following: (a) the Authorized Commission is no longer 
able to preserve the confidentiality of the requested information due to changed circumstances 
relating to the Authorized Commission’s ability to protect confidential information arising since 
the filing of or rejection of a protest directed to the Authorized Commission’s Certification; (b) 
complying with the Information Request would be unduly burdensome to the complainant, and 
the complainant has made a good faith effort to negotiate limitations in the scope of the 
requested information; or (c) other exceptional circumstances exist such that complying with the 
Information Request would result in harm to the complainant. There shall be a presumption that 
“exceptional circumstances,” as used in the prior sentence, does not include circumstances in 
which an Authorized Commission has requested wholesale market data (or Market Monitoring 
Unit workpapers that support or explain conclusions or analyses) generated in the ordinary 
course and scope of the operations of the Market Monitoring Unit. There shall be a presumption 
that circumstances in which an Authorized Commission has requested personnel files, internal 
emails and internal company memos, analyses and related work product constitute “exceptional 
circumstances” as used in the prior sentence. If no complaint challenging the Information 
Request is filed within the ten (10) day period defined above, the Office of the Interconnection 
and/or Market Monitoring Unit shall utilize its best efforts to respond to the Information Request 
promptly. If a complaint is filed, and the Commission does not act on that complaint within 
ninety (90) days, the complaint shall be deemed denied and the Market Monitoring Unit shall use 
its best efforts to respond to the Information Request promptly. 
 
(iv) Any Authorized Commission may initiate appropriate legal action at the FERC 
within ten (10) Business Days following receipt of information designated as “Confidential,” 
challenging such designation. Any complaints filed at FERC objecting to the designation of 
information as “Confidential” shall be designated by the party as a “fast track” complaint and 
each party shall bear its own costs in connection with such FERC proceeding. The party filing 
such a complaint shall be required to prove that the material disclosed does not merit 
“Confidential” status because it is publicly available from other sources or contains no trade 
secret or other sensitive commercial  information (with “publicly available” not being deemed to 
include unauthorized disclosures of otherwise confidential data). 
 
4. In the event of any breach of confidentiality of information disclosed pursuant to an 
Information Request by an Authorized Commission or Authorized Person: 
 
 (i) The Authorized Commission or Authorized Person shall promptly notify the 
Market Monitoring Unit, who shall, in turn, promptly notify any Affected Member of any 
inadvertent or intentional release, or possible release, of confidential information provided 
pursuant to this section I. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 7 
 (ii) The Office Market Monitoring Unit shall terminate the right of such Authorized 
Commission to receive confidential information under this section I upon written notice to such 
Authorized Commission unless: (i) there was no harm or damage suffered by the Affected 
Member; or (ii) similar good cause is shown. Any appeal of the Market Monitoring Unit’s 
actions under this section I shall be to Commission. An Authorized Commission shall be entitled 
to reestablish its certification as set forth in section I.D.1 by submitting a filing with the 
Commission showing that it has taken appropriate corrective action. If the Commission does not 
act upon an Authorized Commission's recertification filing with sixty (60) days of the date of the 
filing, the recertification shall be deemed approved and the Authorized Commission shall be 
permitted to receive confidential information pursuant to this section. 
 
 (iii) The Office of the Interconnection, the Market Monitoring Unit, and/or the 
Affected Member shall have the right to seek and obtain at least the following types of relief: (a) 
an order from the FERC requiring any breach to cease and preventing any future breaches; (b) 
temporary, preliminary, and/or permanent injunctive relief with respect to any breach; and (c) the 
immediate return of all confidential information to the Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
 (iv) No Authorized Person or Authorized Commission shall have responsibility or 
liability whatsoever under this section for any and all liabilities, losses, damages, demands, fines, 
monetary judgments, penalties, costs and expenses caused by, resulting from, or arising out of or 
in connection with the release of confidential information to persons not authorized to receive it, 
provided that such Authorized Person is an agent, servant, employee or member of an 
Authorized Commission at the time of such unauthorized release. Nothing in this section 
I.D.4(iv) is intended to limit the liability of any person who is not an agent, servant, employee or 
member of an Authorized Commission at the time of such unauthorized release for any and all 
economic losses, damages, demands, fines, monetary judgments, penalties, costs and expenses 
caused by, resulting from, or arising out of or in connection with such unauthorized release. 
 
 (v) Any dispute or conflict requesting the relief in section I.D.4(ii) or I.D.4(iii)(a) 
above, shall be submitted to the FERC for hearing and resolution. Any dispute or conflict 
requesting the relief in section I.D.4(iii)(c) above may be submitted to FERC or any court of 
competent jurisdiction for hearing and resolution. 
 
E. [Reserved] 
 
II. DEVELOPMENT OF INPUTS FOR PROSPECTIVE MITIGATION 
 
A. Offer Price Caps:  
 
1. The Market Monitor or his designee shall advise the Office of the Interconnection 
whether it believes that the cost references, methods and rules included in the Cost Development 
Guidelines are accurate and appropriate, as specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit shall review the incremental costs (defined in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.4.2and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 6.4.2) included in the Offer Price Cap of a generating unit in order to ensure 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 8 
that the Market Seller has correctly applied the Cost Development Guidelines, including its PJM-
approved Fuel Cost Policy, and that the level of the Offer Price Cap is otherwise acceptable. The 
Market Monitoring Unit shall inform PJM if it believes a Market Seller has submitted a cost-
based offer that is not compliant with these criteria and whether it recommends that PJM assess 
the applicable penalty therefor, pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 2. 
 
3. On or before the 21st day of each month, the Market Monitoring Unit shall calculate in 
accordance with the applicable criteria whether each generating unit with an offer cap calculated 
under Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.4.2 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.4.2 is eligible to include an adder based on Frequently 
Mitigated Unit or Associated Unit status, and shall issue a written notice of the applicable adder, 
with a copy to the Office of the Interconnection, to the Market Seller for each unit that meets the 
criteria for Frequently Mitigated Unit or Associated Unit status.  
 
4. Notwithstanding the number of jointly pivotal suppliers in any hour, if the Market 
Monitoring Unit determines that a reasonable level of competition will not exist based on an 
evaluation of all facts and circumstances, it may propose to the Commission the removal of 
offer-capping suspensions otherwise authorized by Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
6.4 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.4.  Such proposals 
shall take effect upon Commission acceptance of the Market Monitoring Unit’s filing.  
 
5.   The Market Monitoring Unit shall review all Fuel Cost Policies submitted by Market 
Sellers for market power concerns.  The Market Monitoring Unit shall communicate its 
determination regarding these criteria to PJM and the Market Seller pursuant to the process 
further described in PJM Manual 15.   
 
B. Minimum Generator Operating Parameters:  
 
1. For the 2014/2015 through 2017/2018 Delivery Years, the Market Monitoring Unit shall 
provide to the Office of the Interconnection a table of default unit class specific parameter limits 
to be known as the “Parameter Limited Schedule Matrix” to be included in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.6(c) and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 6.6(c). The Parameter Limited Schedule Matrix shall include default values on 
a unit-type basis as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.6(c) and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.6(c). The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
review the Parameter Limited Schedule Matrix annually, and, in the event it determines that 
revision is appropriate, shall provide a revised matrix to the Office of the Interconnection by no 
later than December 31 prior to the annual enrollment period. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit shall notify Market Sellers of generating units and the 
Office of the Interconnection no later than April 1 of its determination of market power concerns 
raised regarding each request for a period exception or persistent exception to a value specified 
in the Parameter Limited Schedule Matrix or the parameters defined in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 6.6 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.6 
and the PJM Manuals, provided that the Market Monitoring Unit receives such request by no 
later than February 28.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 9 
 
If, prior to the scheduled termination date, a Market Seller submits a request to modify a 
temporary exception, the Market Monitoring Unit shall review such request using the same 
standard utilized to evaluate period exception and persistent exception requests, and shall 
provide its determination of whether the request raises market power concerns, and, if so, any 
modifications that would alleviate those concerns, to the Market Seller, with a copy to Office of 
the Interconnection, by no later than 15 Business Days from the date of the modification request. 
 
3. When a Market Seller notifies the Market Monitoring Unit of a material change to the 
facts relied upon by the Market Monitoring Unit and/or the Office of the Interconnection to 
support a parameter limited schedule period or persistent exception, the Market Monitoring Unit 
shall make a determination, and provide written notification to the Office of the Interconnection 
and the Market Seller, of any change to its determination regarding the exemption request, based 
on the material change in facts, by no later than 15 Business Days after receipt of such notice.  
  
4. The Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Office of the Interconnection of any risk 
premium to which it and a Market Seller owning or operating nuclear generation resource agree 
or its determination if agreement is not obtained. If a Market Seller submits a risk premium for 
its nuclear generation resource that is inconsistent with its agreement or inconsistent with the 
Market Monitoring Unit’s determination regarding such risk premium, the Market Monitoring 
Unit may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of its concerns pursuant to Tariff, 
Attachment M. 
 
C.   RPM Must-Offer Requirement:  
 
1. The Market Monitoring Unit shall maintain, post on its website and provide to the Office 
of the Interconnection prior to each RPM Auction (updated, as necessary, on at least a quarterly 
basis), a list of Existing Generation Capacity Resources located in the PJM Region that are 
subject to the RPM must-offer requirement set forth in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6.   
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit shall evaluate requests submitted by Capacity Market 
Sellers for a determination  that a Generation Capacity Resource, or any portion thereof, be 
removed from Capacity Resource status or exempted from status as a Generation Capacity 
Resource subject to section II.C.1 above and inform both the Capacity Market Seller and the 
Office of the Interconnection of such determination in writing by no later ninety (90) days prior 
to the commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction.  A Generation 
Capacity Resource located in the PJM Region shall not be removed from Capacity Resource 
status to the extent the resource is committed to service of PJM loads as a result of an RPM 
Auction, FRR Capacity Plan, Locational UCAP transaction and/or by designation as a 
replacement resource under Tariff, Attachment DD.  
 
3. Through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year, the Market Monitoring Unit shall evaluate the 
data and documentation provided to it by a potential Capacity Market Seller to establish the 
EFORd to be included in a Sell Offer applicable to each resource pursuant to Tariff, Attachment 
DD, section 6.6(b).  If a Capacity Market Seller timely submits a request for an alternative 
maximum level of EFORd that may be used in a Sell Offer for RPM Auctions held prior to the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 10 
date on which the final EFORds used for a Delivery Year are posted, the Market Monitoring 
Unit shall attempt to reach agreement with the Capacity Market Seller on the alternate maximum 
level of the EFORd by no later than ninety (90) days prior to the commencement of the offer 
period for the Base Residual Auction for the applicable Delivery Year.  By no later than ninety 
(90) days prior to the commencement of the offer period for the Base Residual Auction for the 
applicable Delivery Year, the Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Office of the 
Interconnection in writing, notifying the Capacity Market Seller by copy of the same, of any 
alternative maximum EFORd to which it and the Capacity Market Seller agree or its 
determination of the alternative maximum EFORd if agreement is not obtained.   
 
4. The Market Monitoring Unit shall consider the documentation provided to it by a 
potential Capacity Market Seller pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6 of Attachment 
DD, and determine whether a resource owned or controlled by such Capacity Market Seller 
meets the criteria to qualify for an exception to the RPM must-offer requirement because the 
resource (i) is reasonably expected to be physically unable to participate in the relevant auction; 
(ii) has a financially and physically firm commitment to an external sale of its capacity; or (iii) 
was interconnected to the Transmission System as an Energy Resource and not subsequently 
converted to a Capacity Resource.  The Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Capacity Market 
Seller and the Office of the Interconnection of its determination by no later than ninety (90) days 
prior to the commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction. 
 
In order to establish that a resource is reasonably expected to be physically unable to participate 
in the relevant auction as set forth in (i) above, the Capacity Market Seller must demonstrate 
that:  
 
A. It has a documented plan in place to retire the resource prior to or during the 
Delivery Year, and has submitted a notice of Deactivation to the Office of the Interconnection 
consistent with Tariff, Part V, section 113.1, without regard to whether the Office of the 
Interconnection has requested the Capacity Market Seller to continue to operate the resource 
beyond its desired deactivation date in accordance with Tariff, Part V, section 113.2 for the 
purpose of maintaining the reliability of the PJM Transmission System and the Capacity Market 
Seller has agreed to do so;  
 
B. Significant physical operational restrictions cause long term or permanent 
changes to the installed capacity value of the resource, or the resource is under major repair that 
will extend into the applicable Delivery Year, that will result in the imposition of RPM 
performance penalties pursuant to  Tariff, Attachment DD;  
 
C. The Capacity Market Seller is involved in an ongoing regulatory proceeding (e.g. 
– regarding potential environmental restrictions) specific to the resource and has received an 
order, decision, final rule, opinion or other final directive from the regulatory authority that will 
result in the retirement of the resource; or, 
 
D. A resource considered an Existing Generating Capacity Resource because it 
cleared an RPM Auction for a Delivery Year prior to the Delivery Year of the relevant auction, 
but which is not yet in service, is unable to achieve full commercial operation prior to the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 11 
Delivery Year of the relevant auction.  The Capacity Market Seller must submit to the Office of 
the Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit a written sworn, notarized statement of a 
corporate officer certifying that the resource will not be in full commercial operation prior to the 
referenced Delivery Year. 
 
5. If a Capacity Market Seller submits for the portion of a Generation Capacity Resource 
that it owns or controls, and the Office of Interconnection accepts, a Sell Offer (i) at a level of 
installed capacity that the Market Monitoring Unit believes is inconsistent with the level 
established under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.6.6, (ii) at a level of installed capacity 
inconsistent with its determination of eligibility for an exception listed in section II.C.4 above, or 
(iii) through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year, a maximum EFORd that the Market Monitoring Unit 
believes is inconsistent with the maximum level determined under section II.C.3 of this 
Appendix, the Market Monitoring Unit may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of 
its concerns and/or request a determination from the Commission that would require the 
Generation Capacity Resource to submit a new or revised Sell Offer, notwithstanding any 
determination to the contrary made under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6. 
 
 The Market Monitoring Unit shall also consider the documentation provided by the 
Capacity Market Seller pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6, for generation resources 
for which the Office of the Interconnection has not approved an exception to the RPM must-offer 
requirement as set forth in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6(g), to determine whether the 
Capacity Market Seller’s failure to offer part or all of one or more generation resources into an 
RPM Auction would result in an increase of greater than five percent in any Zonal Capacity 
Price determined through such auction as required by Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6(i), and 
shall inform both the Capacity Market Seller and the Office of the Interconnection of its 
determination by no later than two (2) Business Days after the close of the offer period for the 
applicable RPM Auction.  
 
D. Unit Specific Minimum Sell Offers: 
 
1. If a Capacity Market Seller timely submits an exception request, with all of the required 
documentation as specified in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14(h-2), the Market Monitoring 
Unit shall review the request and documentation and shall provide in writing to the Capacity 
Market Seller and the Office of the Interconnection by no later than ninety (90) days prior the 
commencement of the offer period for the RPM Auction in which it seeks to submit its Sell Offer 
(a) its determination whether the level of the proposed Sell Offer raises market power concerns, 
and (b) if so it shall calculate and provide to such Capacity Market Seller a minimum Sell offer 
Based on the data and documentation received.   
 
2. All data submitted to the Office of the Interconnection or the Market Monitoring Unit by 
a Market Participant is subject to verification by the Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
E. Market Seller Offer Caps:  
 
1. Based on the data and calculations submitted by the Capacity Market Sellers for each 
Existing Generation Capacity Resource and the formulas specified in Tariff, Attachment DD, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 12 
section 6.7(d), the Market Monitoring Unit shall calculate the Market Seller Offer Cap for each 
such resource and provide it to the Capacity Market Seller and the Office of the Interconnection 
by no later than ninety (90) days before the commencement of the offer period for the applicable 
RPM Auction. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit must attempt to reach agreement with the Capacity Market 
Seller on the appropriate level of the Market Seller Offer Cap by no later than ninety (90) days 
prior to the commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction.  If such 
agreement cannot be reached, then the Market Monitoring Unit shall inform the Capacity Market 
Seller and the Office of the Interconnection of its determination of the appropriate level of the 
Market Seller Offer Cap by no later than ninety (90) days prior to the commencement of the 
offer period for the applicable RPM Auction, and the Market Monitoring Unit may pursue any 
action available to it under Attachment M.  
 
F. Mitigation of Offers from Planned Generation Capacity Resources:   
 
Pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.5, the Market Monitoring Unit shall evaluate Sell 
Offers for Planned Generation Capacity Resources to determine whether market power 
mitigation should be applied and notify in writing each Capacity Market Seller whose Sell Offer 
has been determined to be non-competitive and subject to mitigation, with a copy to the Office of 
the Interconnection, by no later than one (1) Business Day after the close of the offer period for 
the applicable RPM Auction.  
 
G. Data Submission:   
 
Pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.7, the Market Monitoring Unit may request 
additional information from any potential auction participant as deemed necessary by the Market 
Monitoring Unit, including, without limitation, additional cost data on resources in a class that is 
not otherwise expected to include the marginal price setting resource.  All data submitted to the 
Office of the Interconnection or the Market Monitoring Unit by a Market Participant is subject to 
verification by the Market Monitoring Unit.  
 
H. Determination of Default Avoidable Cost Rates:  
 
1. The Market Monitoring Unit shall conduct an annual review of the table of default 
Avoidable Cost Rates included in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.7(c) and calculated on the 
bases set forth therein, and determine whether the values included therein need to be updated.  If 
the Market Monitoring Unit determines that the Avoidable Cost Rates need to be updated, it shall 
provide to the Office of the Interconnection updated values or notice of its determination that 
updated values are not needed by no later than September 30th of each year. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit shall indicate in its posted reports on RPM performance the 
number of Generation Capacity Resources and megawatts per LDA that use the retirement 
default Avoidable Cost Rates. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 13 
3. If a Capacity Market Seller does not elect to use a default Avoidable Cost Rate and has 
timely provided to the Market Monitoring Unit its request to apply a unit-specific Avoidable 
Cost Rate, along with the data described in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.7, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall calculate the Avoidable Cost Rate and provide a unit-specific value to the 
Capacity Market Seller for each such resource, and notify the Capacity Market Seller and the 
Office of the Interconnection in writing by no later than ninety (90) days prior to the 
commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction whether it agrees that the 