ATTACHMENT H-22B 
DEOK FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
 
Definitions 
 
“Annual Transmission Revenue Requirements” means the result produced by populating the 
Formula Rate Template with data as provided by the Formula Rate.  
 
“Annual Update” means the posting and informational filing submitted by DEOK on or before 
May 15 of each year that sets forth the DEOK Cost of Service (“COS”) for the subsequent Rate 
Year. 
 
“Discovery Period” means the period after each annual Publication Date to serve information 
requests on DEOK as provided in Section 2.b below. 
 
“DEOK” means Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc., and Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. 
 
“First Rate Year” means the period that begins on January 1, 2012, and ends on May 31, 2012.  
 
“Formal Challenge” means a challenge to an Annual Update submitted to the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) as provided in Section 3.a below. 
 
“Formula Rate” means these Formula Rate Implementation Protocols (to be included as 
Attachment H-22B of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”), FERC Electric Tariff 
(“PJM Tariff”)) and the Formula Rate Template. 
 
“Formula Rate Template” means the collection of formulae, and worksheets, unpopulated with 
any data, to be included as Attachment H-22A of the PJM Tariff. 
 
“Interested Party” means any person or entity having standing under Section 206 of the Federal 
Power Act (“FPA”) with respect to the Annual Update. 
 
“Material Changes” means (i) material changes in DEOK’s accounting policies and practices, (ii) 
changes in FERC’s Uniform System of Accounts (“USofA”), (iii) changes in FERC Form No. 1 
reporting requirements as applicable, or (iv) changes in the FERC’s accounting policies and 
practices, which change causes a result under the Formula Rate different from the result under the 
Formula Rate as calculated without such change. 
 
“Preliminary Challenge” means a written challenge to the Annual Update submitted to DEOK as 
provided in Section 2.a below. 
 
“Protocols” means these Formula Rate Implementation Protocols (to be included as Attachment 
H-22B of the PJM Tariff). 
 
“Publication Date” means the date on which the Annual Update is posted under the provisions of 
Section 1.b below. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-22B-DEOK Formula Rate Implem. Protocol 
Effective Date: 6/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1274-000 - Page 2 
“Rate Year” means the twelve consecutive month period that begins on June 1 and continues 
through May 31 of the subsequent calendar year except for the First Rate Year. 
 
“Review Period” means the period during which Interested Parties may review the calculations 
in the Annual Update as provided in Section 2.a below. 
 
Section 1  Annual Updates 
 
a. Beginning with the Rate Year that commences on June 1, 2012, and during each Rate 
Year thereafter, the Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement calculated in accordance 
with Attachment H-22A and the Network Integration Transmission Service and 
Point-to-Point rates derived therefrom shall be applicable to transmission services 
provided by PJM for the DEOK zone during the Rate Year. 
 
b. On or before May 15, 2012, and on or before May 15 of each succeeding Rate Year, 
DEOK shall recalculate its Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement, producing the 
“Annual Update” for the upcoming Rate Year, and: 
(i) post such Annual Update on PJM’s Internet website (via a link to the 
Transmission Services page or a similar successor page) as both a .pdf (Portable 
Document Format) document and a fully-functioning Excel file; 
(ii) submit such Annual Update as an informational filing with the FERC; 
(iii) provide contact information for inquiries concerning the Annual Update; 
(iv) send an email or other similar electronic communication to all Interested Parties 
that have previously requested such notification through procedures to be 
established by DEOK that informs the recipient that the Annual Update is 
available and that provides the Uniform Resource Locator or other similar 
identifying location information from which the Annual Update can be obtained. 
 
c. If the date for making the Annual Update posting/filing should fall on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by the FERC, then the posting/filing shall be due on the next business 
day. 
 
d. The date on which the last of the events listed in Section 1.b or 1.c occurs shall be that 
year’s “Publication Date.” 
 
e. Within two business days of the Publication Date, DEOK shall also provide notice on 
PJM’s Internet website (via a link to the Transmission Services page or a similar 
successor page) of the time, date and location of an open meeting among interested 
parties (“Annual Meeting”).  This Annual Meeting shall (i) permit DEOK to explain and 
clarify its Annual Update and (ii) provide interested parties an opportunity to seek 
information and clarifications from DEOK about the Annual Update. The Annual 
Meeting shall take place no sooner than ten (10) days after posting of the notice and no 
later than thirty (30) days after the Publication Date. 
 
f. Inputs to the Formula Rate are based on DEOK’s books, which reflect: 
(i) the FERC’s Uniform System of Accounts, and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-22B-DEOK Formula Rate Implem. Protocol 
Effective Date: 6/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1274-000 - Page 3 
(ii) applicable FERC Form No. 1 1 as each exists as of the later of the date of DEOK’s 
initial filing of the Formula Rate or the last day of the calendar year immediately 
preceding the effective date of the most recent revision to the Formula Rate. 
 
g.  The Annual Update for the Rate Year: 
(i) shall, to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, be based upon DEOK’s  FERC 
Form No. 1 data for the most recent calendar year, and to the extent specified in 
the Formula Rate, be based upon the books and records of DEOK consistent with 
Section 1.f above; 
(ii) shall, as and to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, provide the formula rate 
calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting documentation for data 
not otherwise available in the FERC Form No. 1 that are used in the Formula 
Rate;2 
(iii) shall provide sufficient information 3 to enable customers to replicate the 
calculation of the formula results from FERC Form No. 1 and other applicable 
accounting inputs and to compare that calculation to that of prior years, including 
all workpapers necessary to explain any changes made since the last update, and 
to include as applicable: 
 
(1) a copy of the FERC Form No. 1 used for the update if it is not otherwise 
publicly available; 
(2) identification of any changes in the formula references to the FERC Form 
No. 1; 
(3) identification of all adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data in 
determining formula inputs, including relevant footnotes to the FERC 
Form No. 1 and any adjustments not shown in a FERC Form No. 1 
footnote; 
 
 
1. If the referenced form is superseded, the successor form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as 
necessary to provide equivalent information as that provided in the superseded form.  If the 
referenced form(s) is (are) discontinued, equivalent information as that provided in the 
discontinued form(s) shall be utilized. 
 
2. It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations 
described therein, that each input to the Formula Rate will be either taken directly from the FERC 
Form No. 1 for the most recent calendar year or reconcilable to the FERC Form No. 1 by the 
application of clearly identified and supported information provided by DEOK with the Annual 
Update.  Where the reconciliation is provided through a worksheet included in the filed Formula 
Rate Template, the inputs to the worksheet must meet this transparency standard, and doing so 
will satisfy this transparency requirement for the amounts that are output from the worksheet and 
input to the main body of the Formula Rate. 
 
3. As appropriate, competitively sensitive information may be provided only to those persons bound 
by the terms of a suitable confidentiality agreement or protective order. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-22B-DEOK Formula Rate Implem. Protocol 
Effective Date: 6/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1274-000 - Page 4 
(4) a reconciliation of annual and monthly peak demands shown on the FERC 
Form 1 and annual and monthly peak demands used in the formula in 
sufficient detail to enable transparent reconciliation of these two measures; 
(5) a description of those factors influencing any change in the annual revenue 
requirement, including an identification of any respects in which charges 
under the formula rate materially differ from the preceding Annual Update 
(e.g., due to changes in accounting procedures, the purchase or sale of 
major assets, or other such significant changes) and identification of the 
major reason(s) for the differences, if any, between the Annual Update and 
the prior year’s Annual Update; and 
(6) any changes to the data inputs made as a result of a reconciliation made 
under Section 4 below. 
(iv) shall describe material changes, if any, in DEOK’s accounting policies, practices 
and procedures from those in effect for the calendar year upon which the 
immediately preceding Annual Update was based that could or did affect the 
charges under the Formula Rate (“Material Accounting Changes”);4 
(v) shall be subject to challenge and review only in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in this Attachment H-22B, as to the appropriateness of the input data, the 
prudence of the costs and expenditures included for recovery in the Annual 
Update, and the application of the Formula Rate according to its terms and the 
procedures in this Attachment H-22B (including terms and procedures related to 
challenges concerning Material Accounting Changes); 
(vi) except as provided for in Section 1.j below, shall not seek to modify the Formula 
Rate and shall not be subject to challenge by anyone for the purpose of modifying 
the Formula Rate (i.e., all such modifications to the Formula Rate will require, as 
applicable, a Federal Power Act (“FPA”) Section 205 or Section 206 filing). 
 
h. Formula Rate inputs for rate of return on common equity and depreciation rates shall be 
stated values until changed pursuant to an FPA Section 205 or 206 filing made effective 
by the Commission. An application under Section 205 or Section 206 to modify stated 
values for depreciation rates or PBOP expense under the Formula Rate or Protocols shall 
not open review of other components of the Formula Rate or Protocols. 
 
i. Extraordinary property losses recorded in FERC Account 182.1 shall be amortized for 
Formula Rate purposes pursuant to a Section 205 or 206 filing made effective by the 
Commission. 
 
 
 
 
4  Such notice may incorporate by reference applicable disclosure statements filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-22B-DEOK Formula Rate Implem. Protocol 
Effective Date: 6/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1274-000 - Page 5 
j. Any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 as 
described in Section 1.f above shall be grounds for a presumption that the application of 
the Formula Rate shall be modified to restore the balance of the Formula Rate as 
accepted by the FERC (the intent being to prevent such changes in these underlying 
Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 from causing an automatic shift in the 
charges calculated under the Formula Rate without input from other interested parties).  
Any interested party seeking changes to the application of the Formula Rate due to a 
change in the Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 as described in 
Section 1.f, shall first raise the matter with DEOK. 
 
Section 2  Annual Review Procedures 
 
Each Annual Update shall be subject to the following review procedures (“Annual 
Review Procedures”): 
 
a. Interested parties shall have up to one hundred eighty (180) days after the Publication 
Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of DEOK or by FERC 
Order) to review the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations and calculations 
(“Review Period”) and to notify DEOK in writing, which may be made electronically, of 
any specific challenges, including challenges related to the rate treatment of Material 
Accounting Changes, to the application of the Formula Rate and to changes to the 
Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 as described in Section 1.f, above, 
(“Preliminary Challenge”).  Failure to make a Preliminary Challenge or Formal 
Challenge with respect to an Annual Update shall preclude use of these procedures with 
respect to that Annual Update but shall not bar a subsequent Preliminary Challenge or 
Formal Challenge related to a subsequent Annual Update to the extent such Challenge 
affects the subsequent Annual Update. 
 
b. Interested Parties shall have up to one hundred fifty (150) days after each annual 
Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of DEOK or by 
FERC Order) to serve reasonable information requests on DEOK.  Such information 
requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine if DEOK has properly applied 
the Formula Rate, the requirements and procedures of this Attachment H-22B, and the 
prudence of the costs and expenditures included for recovery in the Annual Update, and 
shall not otherwise be directed to ascertaining whether the Formula Rate is just and 
reasonable. 
 
c. DEOK shall make a good faith effort to respond to information requests pertaining to the 
Annual Update within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such requests.  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these Protocols, with respect to 
any information requests received by DEOK within the Discovery Period and for which 
DEOK is unable to provide a response within fifteen (15) business days after the end of 
the Discovery Period, the Review Period shall be extended day-for-day until DEOK’s 
response is provided. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-22B-DEOK Formula Rate Implem. Protocol 
Effective Date: 6/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1274-000 - Page 6 
d. To the extent DEOK and any interested party(ies) are unable to resolve disputes related to 
information requests submitted in accordance with these Annual Review Procedures, 
DEOK or any interested party may petition the FERC to appoint an Administrative Law 
Judge as a discovery master.  The discovery master shall have the power to issue binding 
orders to resolve discovery disputes and compel the production of discovery, as 
appropriate, in accordance with the Annual Review Procedures and consistent with the 
FERC’s discovery rules. 
 
e. Preliminary Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in 
Section 3.  Formal Challenges shall be filed pursuant to these Protocols and shall include 
the information required under 18 C.F.R. § 385.206 (b) (1), (2), (3), (4), and (7). 
 
f. Preliminary or Formal Challenges related to Material Changes are not intended to serve 
as a means of pursuing other objections to the Formula Rate.  Failure to make a 
Preliminary Challenge or Formal Challenge with respect to an Annual Update shall 
preclude use of these procedures with respect to that Annual Update but shall not 
preclude a subsequent Preliminary Challenge or Formal Challenge related to a 
subsequent Annual Update to the extent such Challenge affects the subsequent Annual 
Update. 
 
g. In any proceeding initiated to address a Preliminary or Formal Challenge or sua sponte 
by the FERC, a party or parties seeking to modify the Formula Rate in any respect shall 
bear the applicable burden under the FPA. 
 
Section 3  Resolution of Challenges 
 
a. If DEOK and any interested party(ies) have not resolved any Preliminary Challenge to 
the Annual Update within twenty-one (21) days after the Review Period, an interested 
party shall have an additional twenty-one (21) days (unless such period is extended with 
the written consent of DEOK to continue efforts to resolve the Preliminary Challenge) to 
make a Formal Challenge with the FERC, which shall be served on DEOK by electronic 
service on the date of such filing.  However, there shall be no need to make a Formal 
Challenge or to await conclusion of the time periods in Section 2 if the FERC already has 
initiated a proceeding to consider the Annual Update.   Parties shall make a good faith 
effort to raise all issues in a Preliminary Challenge prior to filing a Formal Challenge; 
provided, however, that a Preliminary Challenge shall not be a prerequisite for bringing a 
Formal Challenge.  Failure to notify DEOK of an issue with respect to an Annual Update 
shall not preclude an Interested Party from pursuing such issues in a Preliminary 
Challenge or Formal Challenge. 
 
b. Any response by DEOK to a Formal Challenge must be submitted to the FERC within 
twenty (20) days of the date of the filing of the Formal Challenge, and shall be served on 
the filing party(ies) by electronic service on the date of such filing. 
 
c. In any proceeding initiated by the FERC concerning the Annual Update or in response to 
a Formal Challenge, DEOK shall bear the burden, consistent with Section 205 of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-22B-DEOK Formula Rate Implem. Protocol 
Effective Date: 6/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1274-000 - Page 7 
Federal Power Act, of proving that it has correctly applied the terms of the Formula Rate, 
consistent with Section 1.g(v), and that it followed the applicable requirements and 
procedures in this Attachment H-22B, in that year's Annual Update.  Nothing herein is 
intended to alter the burdens applied by the Commission with respect to prudence 
challenges. 
 
d. Subject to judicial review of FERC orders, each Annual Update shall become final as to 
the Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement calculated for the Rate Year for which 
the Annual Update was calculated and no longer subject to challenge pursuant to these 
Protocols or by any other means by the FERC or any other entity on the later to occur of 
(i) passage of the twenty-one (21) day period (or extended period, if applicable) for 
making a Formal Challenge if no such challenge has been made and the FERC has not 
initiated a proceeding to consider the Annual Update, or (ii) a final FERC order issued in 
response to a Formal Challenge or a proceeding initiated by the FERC to consider the 
Annual Update. 
 
e. Nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any way the right of DEOK to file unilaterally, 
pursuant to FPA Section 205 and the regulations thereunder, to change the Formula Rate 
or any of its inputs (including, but not limited to, rate of return and transmission incentive 
rate treatment), or to replace the Formula Rate with a stated rate, or the right of any other 
party to request such changes pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal Power Act and the 
regulations thereunder.  These Protocols in no way limit the rights of DEOK or any 
Interested Party to initiate a proceeding at the FERC at any time with respect to the 
Formula Rate or any Annual Update consistent with the party’s full rights under the FPA, 
including Sections 205, 206 and 306, and the FERC’s regulations. 
 
f. Subject to Section 2.e above, it is recognized that resolution of Formal Challenges 
concerning Material Accounting Changes or related to the Uniform System of Accounts 
or FERC Form No. 1 as described above may necessitate adjustments to the Formula 
Rate input data for the applicable Annual Update or changes to the Formula Rate to 
achieve a just and reasonable end result consistent with the intent of the Formula Rate. 
 
g. In making or resolving any Preliminary or Formal Challenge under this Section, a party 
may rely on all information provided by DEOK, including information provided under 
the terms of a confidentiality agreement or protective order; provided, however, that 
parties receiving such information pursuant to a confidentiality agreement or protective 
order shall be bound by the restrictions placed by such agreement or order on disclosure 
or use of confidential information. 
 
Section 4  Changes to Annual Informational Filings 
 
 
 
a. Notice.  If any changes are required to be made to the Annual Update, whether 
because of changes made under these Protocols, due to revisions made to a prior year’s 
FERC Form No. 1 report of Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc., or Duke Energy Ohio, Inc., or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-22B-DEOK Formula Rate Implem. Protocol 
Effective Date: 6/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1274-000 - Page 8 
input data used for a Rate Year or calendar year that would have affected the Annual 
Update for that Rate Year or calendar year, or as the result of any FERC proceeding to 
consider a prior year’s Annual Update, DEOK shall promptly notify the Interested 
Parties, file a correction to the Annual Update with the FERC as an amended 
informational filing describing the change(s) and the cost impact, and provide a copy of 
the amended informational filing to PJM for prompt posting by PJM. 
 
b. Necessary Changes When Made.  Except as provided for below in Section 4.c, 
any corrections or revisions to the inputs and resulting rates that are required as a result of 
a change reported in Section 4.a shall be reflected in the next Annual Update, including 
any resulting refunds or surcharges for corrected past charges which shall be made with 
interest as per section 35.19a of the Commission’s regulations. 
 
c. Changes Made During the Review Period.  Unless otherwise agreed by DEOK 
and the Interested Parties, a correction made under Section 4.a prior to the time 
determined for filing of a Formal Complaint shall reset the performance dates under 
Sections 2 and 3 of these Protocols for Interested Party Annual Review, and the revised 
dates shall run from the posting date(s) for each of the corrections.  The scope of the 
Annual Review shall then be limited to the aspects of the Formula Rate affected by the 
corrections. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-23-EP Rock Springs Annual Transmission Rat 
Effective Date: 2/8/2019 - Docket #: ER19-523-000 - Page 1 
