ATTACHMENT H-4B 
Jersey Central Power & Light Company 
Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
ANNUAL TRUE-UP, INFORMATION EXCHANGE,  
AND CHALLENGE PROCEDURES 
Definitions  
“Actual Transmission Revenue Requirement” or “ATRR” means the actual net transmission 
revenue requirement calculated and posted on the PJM website no later than June 10 of each year 
subsequent to calendar year 2020 for the immediately preceding calendar year in accordance 
with JCP&L’s Formula Rate and based upon JCP&L’s actual costs and expenditures. 
“Annual Update” means JCP&L’s ATRR for the preceding calendar year, as well as the True-up 
for the prior Rate Year, as posted on or before June 10 of each year. 
“Formal Challenge” means a written challenge to an Annual Update or Projected Transmission 
Revenue Requirement submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the 
“Commission” or “FERC”) as provided in Section IV below. 
“Formula Rate” means the collection of formulas and worksheets, unpopulated with any data, 
included as Attachment H-4A of the PJM Tariff. 
“Interested Parties” include, but are not limited to, customers under the PJM Tariff, state utility 
regulatory commissions, the Organization of PJM States, Inc., consumer advocacy agencies, and 
state attorneys general. 
“PJM Tariff” means the Open Access Transmission Tariff of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.  
“Preliminary Challenge” means a written challenge to the Annual Update or Projected 
Transmission Revenue Requirement submitted to JCP&L as provided in Section IV below. 
“Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement” or “PTRR” means the projected net 
transmission revenue requirement calculated for the forthcoming Rate Year, as well as, where 
applicable, the most recently calculated True-up, with interest, to be posted on the PJM website 
no later than October 31 of each year for rates effective the next calendar year starting January 1. 
“Protocols” means these Protocols, included as Attachment H-4B of the PJM Tariff). 
“Publication Date” means the date on which the Annual Update is posted. 
“Rate Year” means the twelve consecutive month period that begins on January 1 and continues 
through December 31. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 2 
“True-up” means the difference between the revenues collected by PJM based on the PTRR (net 
of the True-up from the prior year) and the ATRR for the same Rate Year, which shall be 
provided in the Annual Update on or before June 10 of the year subsequent to the Rate Year. The 
True-up will be a component of the PTRR. 
Section I. Applicability 
The following procedures shall apply to the Jersey Central Power & Light Company 
(“JCP&L”) calculation of its Actual Transmission Revenue Requirement, True-up, and Projected 
Transmission Revenue Requirement. 
Section II. Annual Update and Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement 
A. On or before June 10 of each year subsequent to calendar year 2020, JCP&L shall 
determine its Annual Update for the immediately preceding calendar year under 
Attachment H-4A and Section VII of these Protocols, including calculation of the True-
up to be included in JCP&L’s PTRR for the subsequent Rate Year. 
B. On or before June 10 of each year subsequent to calendar year 2020, JCP&L shall 
provide its Annual Update for the immediately preceding calendar year to PJM and cause 
such information to be posted on the PJM website.  Within two (2) days of such posting, 
JCP&L shall provide notice of such posting via an e-mail exploder list.   
C. On or before September 1 JCP&L shall upon request provide any Interested Party with: 
(1) information showing (a) each transmission project forecasted to be placed into service 
in the following Rate Year that is expected to have a direct cost of $1,000,000 (one 
million dollars) or greater, and a breakdown of the projected direct costs of each such 
project in as much detail as is reasonably available; and (b) purchases of categories of 
capital equipment (e.g., switches, transformers, relays, etc.) $1,000,000 (one million 
dollars) or greater in the aggregate that are forecasted to enter service during the 
following Rate Year, either through the use of such capital equipment in projects 
forecasted to be placed in service during the following Rate Year or as spare plant that 
JCP&L determines to be needed for the safe and reliable operation of the transmission 
system in accordance with Good Utility Practice during the following Rate Year; and (2) 
a statement setting forth the basis for JCP&L’s determination that each such transmission 
project or capital equipment purchase, as applicable, is needed for service during the 
following Rate Year (which statement may be based on a determination that the 
placement of the project or equipment purchases into service during the following Rate 
Year, as described below, is needed as part of a larger multi-year transmission project or 
equipment purchase project, as applicable). JCP&L’s provision of such information shall 
be subject to the protection of any confidential information, as needed, under non- 
disclosure agreements that are based on FERC’s Model Protective Order. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 3 
D. JCP&L shall provide: (1) to PJM, JCP&L’s PTRR for rates to be effective the following 
Rate Year, by October 31, and (2) upon request to any Interested Party by October 31, 
(a) a list of the transmission projects and capital equipment purchases included in the 
PTRR capital projections, which shall be projects and capital equipment forecasted to 
enter service through projects in service or as spare plant during the Rate Year that is the 
subject to the PTRR; (b) a copy of the approved budget and/or construction plan pursuant 
to which such projects and equipment purchases have been undertaken; (c) a statement 
setting forth the basis for JCP&L’s determination that each such transmission project or 
capital equipment purchase, as applicable, is needed for service during the following Rate 
Year (which statement may be based on a determination that the placement of the project 
or equipment purchase into service during the following Rate Year is needed as part of a 
larger multi-year transmission project or equipment purchase project, as applicable). With 
respect to the information referenced in clause (1), on October 31, JCP&L shall provide 
via an email exploder list: (i) its PTRR for rates to be effective the following Rate Year; 
and (ii) notice of such posting. With respect to the information described in clause (2), 
JCP&L’s provision of such information shall be subject to the protection of any 
confidential information, as needed, under non-disclosure agreements that are based on 
FERC’s Model Protective Order.   
E. If the date for posting the Annual Update or PTRR falls on a weekend or a holiday 
recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be due on the next business day.  The date on 
which posting of the Annual Update occurs shall be that year’s Publication Date.  Any 
delay in the Publication Date or in the posting of the PTRR will result in an equivalent 
extension of time for the submission of information requests discussed in Section III of 
these Protocols. If the deadline for any event under these Protocols falls on a weekend or 
a holiday recognized by the Commission, the deadline for such event shall be extended to 
the next business day. 
F. The ATRR shall: 
1. Include a workable data-populated version of the Formula Rate template and 
underlying work papers in Excel format with all formulas and links intact; 
2. Be based on JCP&L’s FERC Form No. 1 for the prior calendar year; 
3. Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting 
documentation and work papers for data that are used in the ATRR that are not 
otherwise available in the FERC Form No. 1, subject to the protection of any 
confidential information, as needed, under non-disclosure agreements that are 
based on FERC’s Model Protective Order; 
4. Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 4 
calculation of the ATRR results from the FERC Form No. 1; 
5. Identify any changes in the formula references (page and line numbers) to the 
FERC Form No. 1; 
6. Identify and, to the extent not explained in a worksheet included in the ATRR, 
explain, all material adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data in 
determining formula inputs, including relevant footnotes to the FERC Form No. 1 
and any adjustments not shown in the FERC Form No. 1; 
7. Provide underlying data for Formula Rate inputs that provide greater granularity 
than is required for the FERC Form No. 1; 
8. With respect to any change in accounting that affects inputs to the Formula Rate 
or the resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate (“Accounting Change”): 
a. Identify any Accounting Change, including: 
i. the initial implementation of an accounting standard such as a new 
requirement under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”) or changes to GAAP, or policy; 
ii. the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific 
accounting direction; 
iii. the initial implementation of accounting changes in the reporting 
of the FERC Form No. 1 accounts from the prior year to the 
current year to the extent such change(s) affect(s) the Formula Rate 
revenue requirement: changes in (1) FERC’s Uniform System of 
Accounts, (2) FERC Form No. 1 reporting requirements as 
applicable, (3) any FERC ratemaking orders applicable to the 
Formula Rate, and (4) the accounting policies of JCP&L; 
iv. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that affect the 
ATRR and True-up calculation; 
v. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that 
change prior estimates; and 
vi. changes to income tax elections; 
b. Identify items included in the ATRR at an amount other than on a historic 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 5 
cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
c. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year 
and explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to 
the ATRR; and 
d. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to items II.E.8.a - II.E.8.c 
above, a narrative explanation of the individual impact of such change on 
the ATRR; and 
It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and 
allocation described therein, that each input to the Formula Rate will be either 
taken directly from FERC Form No. 1 or reconcilable to FERC Form No. 1 by the 
application of clearly identified and supported information. If the referenced form 
is superseded, the successor form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as 
necessary to provide equivalent information as that provided in the superseded 
form. If the referenced form(s) is (are) discontinued, equivalent information as 
that provided in the discontinued form(s) shall be utilized. 
9. Include for the applicable Rate Year the following information related to affiliate 
cost allocation: (A) a detailed description of the methodologies used to allocate and 
directly assign costs between JCP&L and its affiliates by service category and function, 
including any changes to such cost allocation methodologies from the prior year, and the 
reasons and justification for those changes; and (B) the magnitude of such costs that have 
been allocated or directly assigned between JCP&L and each affiliate by service category 
or function. 
G. The Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement shall: 
1. Include a workable data-populated version of the Formula Rate template and 
underlying work papers in Excel format with all formulas and links intact; 
2. Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting 
documentation and work papers for data that are used in the PTRR; 
3. Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the 
calculation of the PTRR; 
4. With respect to any Accounting Change: 
a. Identify any Accounting Change, including: 
i. the initial implementation of an accounting standard such as a new 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 6 
requirement under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”) or changes to GAAP, or policy; 
ii. the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific 
accounting direction; 
iii. the initial implementation of accounting changes in the reporting 
of the FERC Form No. 1 accounts from the prior year to the 
current year to the extent such change(s) affect(s) the Formula Rate 
revenue requirement: changes in (1) FERC’s Uniform System of 
Accounts, (2) FERC Form No. 1 reporting requirements as 
applicable, (3) any FERC ratemaking orders applicable to the 
Formula Rate, and (4) the accounting policies of JCP&L; 
iv. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that affect the 
PTRR calculation; 
v. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that 
change prior estimates; and 
vi. changes to income tax elections; 
b. Identify items included in the PTRR at an amount other than on a historic 
cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
c. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year 
and explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to 
the PTRR; and 
d. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to items II.F.4.a - II.F.4.c of 
these Protocols, a narrative explanation of the individual impact of such 
change on the PTRR. 
H. JCP&L shall hold an open meeting among Interested Parties (“Annual Update Meeting”), 
to be conducted via Internet webcast, no earlier than ten (10) business days following the 
Publication Date and no later than July 10.  No fewer than seven (7) days prior to such 
Annual Update Meeting, JCP&L shall provide notice on PJM’s website of the time and 
date of the Annual Update Meeting, and shall provide notice of the posting via an e-mail 
exploder list.  The Annual Update Meeting shall: (i) permit JCP&L to explain and clarify 
its ATRR and True-up; and (ii) provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek 
information and clarifications from JCP&L about the ATRR and True-up. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 7 
I. JCP&L shall hold an open meeting among Interested Parties (“Annual Projected Rate 
Meeting”), to be conducted via Internet webcast, no earlier than five (5) business days 
following the posting of the PTRR (as described in Section II.C of these Protocols) and 
no later than November 30.  No fewer than five (5) days prior to such Annual Projected 
Rate Meeting, JCP&L shall provide notice on PJM’s website of the time and date of the 
Annual Projected Rate Meeting, and shall provide notice of the posting via an e-mail 
exploder list.  The Annual Projected Rate Meeting shall: (i) permit JCP&L to explain and 
clarify its PTRR and (ii) provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information 
and clarifications from JCP&L about the PTRR. 
Section III. Information Exchange Procedures 
Each Annual Update and PTRR shall be subject to the following information exchange 
procedures (“Information Exchange Procedures”): 
A. Interested Parties shall have until January 15 following the Publication Date (unless such 
period is extended with the written consent of JCP&L or by FERC order) to serve 
reasonable information and document requests on JCP&L (“Information Exchange 
Period”).  If January 15 falls on a weekend or a holiday recognized by FERC, the 
deadline for submitting all information and document requests shall be extended to the 
next business day.  Such information and document requests shall be limited to what is 
necessary to determine: 
1. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
2. whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded in accordance 
with these Protocols; 
3. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these Protocols; 
4. the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations 
shown in the ATRR or PTRR; 
5. the prudence of actual costs and expenditures included in the ATRR or the 
reasonableness of projected costs and expenditures included in the PTRR, 
information concerning which may include JCP&L's utilized procurement 
methods and cost control methodologies, and the basis for and reasonableness of 
allocating all or any portion of such costs and expenditures to wholesale 
transmission service; 
6. whether transmission projects or equipment purchases underlying the costs and 
expenditures included in the ATRR or PTRR are needed for service during the 
Rate Year (including as part of a larger multi-year transmission project or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 8 
equipment purchase program, as applicable); 
7. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or FERC 
Form No. 1; or 
8. any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
The information and document requests shall not be directed to ascertaining whether the Formula 
Rate is just and reasonable. 
B. JCP&L shall make a good faith effort to respond to any information and document 
request within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such request.  JCP&L shall respond 
to all information and document requests by no later than February 25 following the 
Publication Date, unless the Information Exchange Period is extended by JCP&L or 
FERC. 
C. JCP&L will serve all information requests from Interested Parties and JCP&L’s 
response(s) to such requests upon any Interested Party that requests such service, subject 
to the protection of any confidential information contained in such information requests 
or responses, as needed, under non-disclosure agreements that are based on FERC’s 
Model Protective Order. 
D. JCP&L shall not claim that responses to information and document requests provided 
pursuant to these Protocols are subject to any settlement privilege in any proceeding 
addressing JCP&L’s Annual Update or PTRR, and such responses may be included in 
any Formal Challenge or other submittal addressing JCP&L’s Annual Update or PTRR.   
E. To the extent JCP&L and any Interested Parties are unable to resolve disputes related to 
Information Requests submitted in accordance with these Protocols, such dispute will be 
discussed by senior representatives of JCP&L and the Interested Party(ies). If the 
representatives are unsuccessful in resolving the dispute, JCP&L or Interested Party(ies) 
may petition the FERC’s On Call Settlement Judge to assist in resolving the dispute. 
Section IV. Challenge Procedures 
A. Interested Parties shall have until March 31 following the Publication Date (unless such 
period is extended with the written consent of JCP&L or by FERC order) (“Review 
Period”), to review the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations and calculations and 
to notify JCP&L in writing, which may be made electronically, of any specific 
Preliminary Challenges to the Annual Update or PTRR.  If the final day of the Review 
Period falls on a holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for submitting all Preliminary 
Challenges shall be extended to the next business day.  Failure to pursue an issue through 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 9 
a Preliminary Challenge or to lodge a Formal Challenge regarding any issue as to a given 
Annual Update or PTRR shall bar pursuit of such issue with respect to that Annual 
Update or PTRR under the challenge procedures set forth in these Protocols, but shall not 
bar pursuit of such issue or the lodging of a Formal Challenge as to such issue as it relates 
to a subsequent Annual Update or PTRR.  This Section IV.A in no way shall affect a 
party’s rights under Federal Power Act (“FPA”) section 206 as set forth in Section IV.I of 
these Protocols. 
B. Preliminary Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in 
this Section IV and shall satisfy all of the following requirements. 
1. A party submitting a Preliminary Challenge to JCP&L must specify the inputs, 
supporting explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information to which it 
objects, and provide an appropriate explanation and documents to support its 
challenge. 
2. JCP&L shall make a good faith effort to respond to any Preliminary Challenge 
within twenty (20) business days of written receipt of such challenge. 
3. JCP&L, and where applicable, PJM, shall appoint a senior representative to work 
with each party that submitted a Preliminary Challenge (or its representative) 
toward a resolution of the challenge. 
4. If JCP&L disagrees with such challenge, JCP&L will provide the Interested 
Party(ies) with an explanation supporting the inputs, supporting explanations, 
allocations, calculations, or other information. 
5. No Preliminary Challenge may be submitted after March 31, and JCP&L must 
respond to all Preliminary Challenges by no later than April 30 unless the Review 
Period is extended by JCP&L or FERC, or as provided in Section IV.A above. 
6. JCP&L will serve all Preliminary Challenges and JCP&L’s response(s) to such 
Preliminary Challenges upon any Interested Party that requests such service, 
subject to the protection of any confidential information contained in such 
Preliminary Challenges or responses, as needed, under non-disclosure agreements 
that are based on the FERC’s Model Protective Order. 
C. Formal Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in this 
Section IV. Formal Challenges shall be filed pursuant to these Protocols and shall satisfy 
all of the following requirements. 
1. A Formal Challenge shall: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 10 
a. Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the filed 
Formula Rate or these Protocols; 
b. Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed Formula Rate or these 
Protocols; 
c. Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues presented by 
the action or inaction as such relate to or affect the party filing the Formal 
Challenge, including: 
(i) the extent or effect of an Accounting Change;   
(ii) whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded 
in accordance with these Protocols; 
(iii) the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these 
Protocols; 
(iv) the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
charges shown in the ATRR or PTRR; 
(v) the prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
(vi) the reasonableness of any projection that forms a basis of the 
PTRR; 
(vii) whether transmission projects or equipment purchases underlying 
the costs and expenditures included in the ATRR or PTRR are 
needed for service during the Rate Year (including as part of a 
larger multi-year transmission project or equipment purchase 
program, as applicable); 
(viii) the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of 
Accounts or FERC Form No. 1; or 
(ix) any other information that may reasonably have a substantive 
effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula 
Rate. 
d. Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if any) 
created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of the 
challenged action or inaction; 
e. State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing Commission 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 11 
proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the filing party is 
a party, and if so, provide an explanation why timely resolution cannot be 
achieved in that forum; 
f. State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for stay 
or extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
g. Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in 
possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, including, but 
not limited to, contracts and affidavits; and 
h. State whether the filing party utilized the Preliminary Challenge 
procedures described in these Protocols to dispute the challenged action or 
inaction raised by the Formal Challenge, and, if not, describe why not. 
2. Service.  Any person filing a Formal Challenge must serve a copy of such Formal 
Challenge on JCP&L.  Service to JCP&L must be simultaneous with filing at 
FERC.  Simultaneous service can be accomplished by electronic mail in 
accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 385.2010(f)(3), facsimile, express delivery, or 
messenger. A party filing a Formal Challenge shall serve the individual listed as 
the contact person on JCP&L’s Informational Filing required under Section VI of 
these Protocols. 
D. Preliminary and Formal Challenges shall be limited to all issues that may be necessary to 
determine: 
1. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
2. whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded in accordance 
with these Protocols, or includes data not properly recorded in accordance with 
these Protocols; 
3. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these Protocols; 
4. the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations 
shown in the ATRR and PTRR; 
5. the prudence of actual costs and expenditures included as inputs to the Formula 
Rate; 
6. the reasonableness of any projection that forms a basis of the PTRR; 
7. whether transmission projects or equipment purchases underlying the costs and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 12 
expenditures included in the ATRR or PTRR are needed for service during the 
Rate Year (including as part of a larger multi-year transmission project or 
equipment purchase program, as applicable); 
8. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or FERC 
Form No. 1; or 
9. any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
E. Any changes or adjustments to the ATRR and PTRR resulting from the information 
exchange and Preliminary Challenge processes that are agreed to by JCP&L will be 
reported in the Informational Filing required pursuant to Section VI of these Protocols.  
Any such changes or adjustments agreed to by JCP&L on or before December 1 will be 
reflected in the PTRR for the upcoming Rate Year.  Any changes or adjustments agreed 
to by JCP&L after December 1 will be reflected in the following year’s Annual Update, 
as discussed in Section V of these Protocols. 
F. An Interested Party shall have until June 1 following the Review Period (unless such date 
is extended with the written consent of JCP&L to continue efforts to resolve the 
Preliminary Challenge) to make a Formal Challenge with FERC, which shall be served 
on JCP&L on the date of such filing as specified in Section IV.C.2 above.  A Formal 
Challenge shall be filed in the same docket as JCP&L’s Informational Filing discussed in 
Section VI of these Protocols. JCP&L shall respond to the Formal Challenge by the 
deadline established by FERC.  An Interested Party may not pursue a Formal Challenge 
unless it submitted a Preliminary Challenge on some issue (which may be different from 
the Formal Challenge issue) during the applicable Review Period.   
G. In any proceeding initiated by FERC concerning the Annual Update or PTRR or in 
response to a Formal Challenge, JCP&L shall bear the burden, consistent with FPA 
section 205, of proving that it has correctly applied the terms of the Formula Rate 
consistent with these Protocols, that it followed the applicable requirements and 
procedures in the Formula Rate.  Nothing herein is intended to alter the burdens applied 
by FERC with respect to prudence challenges.  
H. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any 
way the right of JCP&L to file unilaterally, pursuant to FPA section 205 and the 
regulations thereunder, to change these Protocols, the Formula Rate, or any of its inputs 
(including, but not limited to, rate of return and transmission incentive rate treatment), or 
to replace the Formula Rate with a stated rate, or the right of any other party to request 
such changes pursuant to FPA section 206. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 13 
I. No party shall seek to modify these Protocols or the Formula Rate under the challenge 
procedures set forth in these Protocols, and the Annual Update and PTRR shall not be 
subject to challenge by anyone for the purpose of modifying the Formula Rate.  Any 
modifications to these Protocols or the Formula Rate will require, as applicable, a FPA 
section 205 or section 206 proceeding.  
J. Any Interested Party seeking changes to the application of the Formula Rate due to a 
change in the Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 must have raised a 
Preliminary Challenge with JCP&L before pursuing a Formal Challenge. 
Section V. Changes to Actual Transmission Revenue Requirement or Projected 
Transmission Revenue Requirement 
A. Except as provided in Section IV.E of these Protocols, any changes to the data inputs, 
including but not limited to revisions to JCP&L’s FERC Form No. 1, or as the result of 
any FERC proceeding to consider the ATRR or PTRR, or as a result of the procedures set 
forth herein, shall be incorporated into the Formula Rate and the charges produced by the 
Formula Rate in the PTRR for the next Rate Year.  This reconciliation mechanism shall 
apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments.  Interest on any refund or surcharge shall be 
calculated in accordance with the procedures outlined in Section VII of these Protocols. 
B. In the event that JCP&L identifies an error in the Annual Update (or its FERC Form No. 
1 or successor form which is used as an input to the Formula Rate), or if JCP&L is 
required by applicable law or a court or a regulatory body to correct such error, JCP&L 
shall correct the error in good faith and without regard to whether the correction increases 
or decreases JCP&L's revenue requirements. JCP&L shall implement the correction in 
the next Annual Update following the identification of the error or the order of a court or 
regulatory body. Nothing in these protocols should or may be construed as preventing 
Interested Parties from protesting such correction. 
Section VI. Informational Filings 
A. By June 10 of each year, JCP&L shall submit to FERC an informational filing 
(“Informational Filing”) of its PTRR for the Rate Year, including its ATRR and True-up.  
This Informational Filing must include information that is reasonably necessary to 
determine: 
1. that input data to the Formula Rate are properly recorded in any underlying work 
papers; 
2. that JCP&L has properly applied the Formula Rate and these Protocols; 
3. the accuracy of data and the consistency with the Formula Rate of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 14 
transmission revenue requirement and rates under review; 
4. the extent of Accounting Changes that affect Formula Rate inputs; and 
5. the reasonableness of projected costs and the prudence of actual costs. 
The Informational Filing must also describe any corrections or adjustments made during 
the period since the Publication Date, and must describe all aspects of the Formula Rate 
or its inputs that are the subject of an ongoing dispute under the Preliminary Challenge or 
Formal Challenge procedures. Finally, the Informational Filing shall include for the 
applicable Rate Year the following information related to affiliate cost allocation: a 
detailed description of the methodologies used to allocate and directly assign costs 
between JCP&L and its affiliates by service category or function, including any changes 
to such cost allocation methodologies from the prior year, and the reasons and 
justification for those changes; the magnitude of such costs that have been allocated or 
directly assigned between JCP&L and each affiliate by service category or function; and 
a copy of any service agreement between JCP&L and any JCP&L affiliate that went into 
effect during the Rate Year.Within five (5) days of such Informational Filing, JCP&L 
shall provide notice of the Informational Filing via an e-mail exploder list and by posting 
the docket number assigned to JCP&L’s Informational Filing on the PJM website, subject 
to the protection of any confidential information contained in the Informational Filing, as 
needed, under non- disclosure agreements that are based on FERC’s Model Protective 
Order.  
B. Any challenges to the implementation of the Formula Rate must be made through the 
challenge procedures described in Section IV of these Protocols or in a separate 
complaint proceeding, and not in response to the Informational Filing. 
 
Section VII. Calculation of True-up 
The True-up will be determined in the following manner: 
A. As part of the Annual Update for each Rate Year, JCP&L shall determine the difference 
between the revenues collected by PJM based on the PTRR for the Rate Year (net of the 
True-up from the prior year) and the ATRR for the same Rate Year based on actual cost 
data as reflected in its FERC Form No. 1. The True-up will be determined as follows: 
i. The ATRR for the previous Rate Year as determined using JCP&L’s completed 
FERC Form No. 1 report shall be compared to the revenues collected by PJM 
based on the PTRR (net of the True-up from the prior year) for that same Rate 
Year (“True-up Year”) to determine any excess or shortfall in the revenues 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4B - Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-004 - Page 15 
collected by PJM in the True-up Year.  The revenue excess or shortfall 
determined by this comparison shall constitute the “True-up.” 
ii. Interest on any True-up shall be based on the interest rate equal to the interest rate 
determined by 18 CFR § 35.19a.  Interest rates will be used to calculate the time 
value of money for the period that the True-up exists.  The interest rate to be 
applied to the True-up will be determined as follows: (i) for time periods for 
which there is an interest rate posted on FERC’s website, the True-up will reflect 
each applicable quarter’s annual rate; (ii) for time periods for which there is no 
interest rate posted on FERC’s website (i.e., future time periods, in which an 
interest rate is not yet available), the True-up will reflect the last known quarter’s 
annual rate, as posted on FERC’s website and as determined prior to the posting 
of the JCP&L PTRR that includes the applicable True-up.  
B. JCP&L will post on PJM’s website all information relating to the True-up as part of the 
Annual Update.  As provided in Section II.B of these Protocols, JCP&L shall provide its 
Annual Update for the immediately preceding calendar year to PJM and cause such 
information to be posted on the PJM website on or before June 10 of each year 
subsequent to calendar year 2020. 
Section VIII. Formula Rate Inputs 
A. Stated inputs to the Formula Rate:  For (i) rate of return on common equity; (ii) “Post-
Employment Benefits other than Pension” (“PBOP”) charges pursuant to Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement 
Benefits Other Than Pensions; and (iii) depreciation and/or amortization rates, the values 
in the Formula Rate shall be stated values and may be changed only pursuant to a FPA 
section 205 or section 206 proceeding.  These stated-value inputs are specified in 
Attachment 9 of the Formula Rate. 
B.  Unpopulated Formula Rate line items:  With respect to line items in the Formula Rate 
that are not currently populated with non-zero numerical values because FERC policy 
requires prior authorization for recovery of the underlying costs or because, due to the 
nature of the associated functional activities, such costs are not considered part of 
JCP&L’s transmission-related revenue requirement (but not line items that are zero 
values in a particular Rate Year for the sole reason that no such costs or revenues were 
incurred or revenues received or projected to be incurred or received during the Rate 
Year), such line items shall not be populated with non-zero values except as may be 
authorized following a FPA section 205 or section 206 proceeding.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-4C - Other Supporting Facilities Rates  
Effective Date: 1/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-227-003 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT H-4C 
Other Supporting Facilities Rates -- Jersey Central Power & Light Company 
for Network Integration Transmission Service 
 
Service Below 34.5 kV delta 
 
As provided in Attachment H-4, section 1, service utilizing facilities at voltages below 
34.5 kV delta to serve certain New Jersey municipal utilities will be provided at rates determined 
on a case-by-case basis and stated in existing NITS Agreements under Attachment F through the 
expiration of such agreements on May 31, 2019.  Commencing on June 1, 2019, the rates for such 
service shall be as follows: 
 
Borough of Butler, New Jersey: $0.1121/kW-Month 
Borough of Lavallette, New Jersey: $2.3784/kW-Month  
Borough of Madison, New Jersey: $0.0570/kW-Month  
Borough of Pemberton, New Jersey: $1.1081/kW-Month 
Borough of Seaside Heights, New Jersey: $1.2459/kW-Month 
The above rates will be applied to the each of the New Jersey boroughs’ monthly sixty 
(60) minute coincident billing demands measured at the time of JCP&L’s system peak each 
month. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-5 - FE PA (MetEd Zone) 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 1 
