ATTACHMENT H-21B 
American Transmission Systems, Incorporated 
Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
 
ANNUAL TRUE-UP, INFORMATION EXCHANGE,  
AND CHALLENGE PROCEDURES 
 
Definitions  
 
“Actual Transmission Revenue Requirement” or “ATRR” means the actual net transmission revenue 
requirement calculated and posted on the PJM website no later than May 1 of each year subsequent to 
calendar year 2015 for the immediately preceding calendar year in accordance with ATSI’s Formula Rate 
and based upon ATSI’s actual costs and expenditures. 
 
“Annual Update” means ATSI’s ATRR for the preceding calendar year, as well as the True-up for the prior 
Rate Year, as posted on or before May 1 of each year. 
 
“Formal Challenge” means a written challenge to an Annual Update or Projected Transmission Revenue 
Requirement submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the “Commission” or “FERC”) as 
provided in Section IV below. 
 
“Formula Rate” means these protocols (to be included as Attachment H-21B of the PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. (“PJM”), FERC Electric Tariff (“PJM Tariff”)) and the Formula Rate Template. 
 
“Formula Rate Template” means the collection of formulas and worksheets, unpopulated with any data, to 
be included as Attachment H-21A of the PJM Tariff. 
 
“Interested Parties” include, but are not limited to, direct or indirect customers under the PJM Tariff, 
state utility regulatory commissions, the Organization of PJM States, Inc., consumer advocacy agencies, 
and state attorneys general. 
 
“Preliminary Challenge” means a written challenge to the Annual Update or Projected Transmission 
Revenue Requirement submitted to ATSI as provided in Section IV below. 
 
“Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement” or “PTRR” means the projected net transmission 
revenue requirement calculated for the forthcoming Rate Year, as well as, where applicable, the most 
recently calculated True-up, with interest, to be posted on the PJM website no later than October 15 of 
each year for rates effective the next calendar year starting January 1. 
 
“Publication Date” means the date on which the Annual Update is posted. 
 
“Rate Year” means the twelve consecutive month period that begins on January 1 and continues through 
December 31. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 2 
 
“Review Period” means the period of time from the Publication Date until March 15. 
 
“True-up” means the difference between the revenues collected by PJM based on the PTRR (net of the 
True-up from the prior year) and the ATRR for the same Rate Year, which shall be provided in the 
Annual Update on or before May 1 of the year subsequent to the Rate Year. The True-up will be a 
component of the PTRR. 
Section I. Applicability 
 
The following procedures shall apply to the American Transmission Systems, Incorporated 
(“ATSI”) calculation of its Actual Transmission Revenue Requirement, True-up, and Projected 
Transmission Revenue Requirement. 
Section II. Annual Update and Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement 
 
A. On or before May 1 of each year subsequent to calendar year 2015, ATSI shall determine its 
Annual Update for the immediately preceding calendar year under Attachment H-21 and Section 
VII of these protocols, including calculation of the True-up to be included in ATSI’s PTRR for the 
subsequent Rate Year. 
B. On or before May 1 of each year subsequent to calendar year 2015, ATSI shall provide its Annual 
Update for the immediately preceding calendar year to PJM and cause such information to be 
posted on the PJM website. Within two (2) days of such posting, PJM shall provide notice of such 
posting via an email exploder list.   
C. On or before September 1 of each year, ATSI shall, upon request, provide any Interested Party 
with: (1) information showing (a) each transmission project forecasted to be placed into service 
in the following Rate Year that is expected to have a direct cost of $1 million or greater, and a 
breakdown of the projected direct costs of each such project in as much detail as is reasonably 
available; and (b) purchases of categories of capital equipment (e.g., switches, transformers, 
relays, etc.) aggregating $3 million or greater that are forecasted to enter service during the 
following Rate Year, either through the use of such capital equipment in projects forecasted to be 
placed in service during the following Rate Year or as spare plant that ATSI determines to be 
needed for the safe and reliable operation of the transmission system in accordance with Good 
Utility Practice during the following Rate Year; and (2) a statement setting forth the basis for 
ATSI’s determination that each such transmission project or capital equipment purchase, as 
applicable, is needed for service during the following Rate Year (which statement may be based 
on a determination that the placement of the project or equipment purchase into service during 
the following Rate Year, as described above, is needed as part of a larger multi-year transmission 
project or equipment purchase program, as applicable).  ATSI’s provision of the foregoing 
information shall be subject to the protection of any confidential information, as needed, under 
non-disclosure agreements that are based on FERC’s Model Protective Order.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 3 
D. On or before October 15 of each year, ATSI shall provide: (1) to PJM, ATSI’s PTRR for rates to 
be effective the following Rate Year, and (2) to any Interested Party upon request, (a) a list of the 
transmission projects and capital equipment purchases included in the PTRR capital projections, 
which shall be projects and capital equipment forecasted to enter service through projects in 
service or as spare plant during the Rate Year that is the subject of the PTRR; (b) a copy of the 
approved budget and/or construction plan pursuant to which such projects and equipment 
purchases have been undertaken; and (c) a statement setting forth the basis for ATSI’s 
determination that each such transmission project or capital equipment purchase, as applicable, 
is needed for service during the following Rate Year (which statement may be based on a 
determination that the placement of the project or equipment purchase into service during the 
following Rate Year is needed as part of a larger multi-year transmission project or equipment 
purchase program, as applicable).  With respect to the information referenced in clause (1), ATSI 
shall cause such information to be posted on the PJM website, and within two (2) days of posting 
of the PTRR, PJM shall provide notice of such posting via an email exploder list.  With respect to 
the information described in clause (2), ATSI’s provision of such information shall be subject to 
the protection of any confidential information, as needed, under non-disclosure agreements that 
are based on FERC’s Model Protective Order. 
E. If the date for posting the Annual Update or PTRR falls on a weekend or a holiday recognized by 
FERC, then the posting shall be due on the next business day. The date on which posting of the 
Annual Update occurs shall be that year’s Publication Date. Any delay in the Publication Date or 
in the posting of the PTRR will result in an equivalent extension of time for the submission of 
information requests discussed in Section III of these protocols. 
F. The ATRR shall: 
1. Include a workable data-populated Formula Rate Template and underlying workpapers 
in native format with all formulas and links intact; 
2. Be based on ATSI’s FERC Form No. 1 for the prior calendar year; 
3. Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting 
documentation and workpapers for data that are used in the ATRR that are not otherwise 
available in the FERC Form No. 1, subject to the protection of any confidential 
information, as needed, under non-disclosure agreements that are based on FERC’s 
Model Protective Order; 
4. Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties (as defined in the protocols) to 
replicate the calculation of the ATRR results from the FERC Form No. 1; 
5. Identify any changes in the formula references (page and line numbers) to the FERC 
Form No. 1; 
6. Identify and, to the extent not explained in a worksheet included in the ATRR, explain, all 
material adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data in determining formula inputs, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 4 
including relevant footnotes to the FERC Form No. 1 and any adjustments not shown in 
the FERC Form No. 1; 
7. Provide underlying data for Formula Rate inputs that provide greater granularity than is 
required for the FERC Form No. 1; 
8. With respect to any change in accounting that affects inputs to the Formula Rate or the 
resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate (“Accounting Change”): 
a. Identify any Accounting Change, including: 
i. the initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy; 
ii. the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific accounting 
direction; 
iii. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that impact the ATRR 
and True-up calculation; 
iv. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that change 
prior estimates; and 
v. changes to income tax elections; 
b. Identify items included in the ATRR at an amount other than on a historic cost 
basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
c. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year and 
explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to the 
ATRR; 
d. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to items II.E.8.a – II.E.8.c above, a 
narrative explanation of the individual impact of such change on the ATRR. 
9. It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations 
described therein, that each input to the Formula Rate will be either taken directly from 
FERC Form No. 1 or reconcilable to FERC Form No. 1 by the application of clearly 
identified and supported information. If the referenced form is superseded, the successor 
form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as necessary to provide equivalent information 
as that provided in the superseded form. If the referenced form(s) is (are) discontinued, 
equivalent information as that provided in the discontinued form(s) shall be utilized. 
G. The Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement shall: 
1. Include a workable data-populated Formula Rate Template and underlying workpapers in 
native format with all formulas and links intact; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 5 
2. Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting 
documentation and workpapers for data that are used in the PTRR; 
3. Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the calculation of 
the PTRR; 
4. With respect to any Accounting Change: 
a. Identify any Accounting Change, including: 
i. the initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy; 
ii. the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific accounting 
direction; 
iii. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that impact the PTRR 
calculation; 
iv. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that change 
prior estimates; and 
v. changes to income tax elections. 
b. Identify items included in the PTRR at an amount other than on a historic cost 
basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
c. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year and 
explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to the 
PTRR; and 
d. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to items II.F.4.a – II.F.4.c of these 
protocols, a narrative explanation of the individual impact of such change on the 
PTRR. 
H. ATSI shall hold an open meeting among Interested Parties (“Annual Update Meeting”), to be 
conducted via Internet webcast, no earlier than ten (10) business days following the Publication 
Date and no later than May 25.  No fewer than seven (7) days prior to such Annual Update 
Meeting, ATSI shall provide notice on PJM’s website of the time, date, and  webcast registration 
information of the Annual Update Meeting, and PJM shall provide notice of the posting via an 
email exploder list.  The Annual Update Meeting shall: (i) permit ATSI to explain and clarify its 
ATRR and True-up; and (ii) provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and 
clarifications from ATSI about the ATRR and True-up. 
I. ATSI shall hold an open meeting among Interested Parties (“Annual Projected Rate Meeting”), 
to be conducted via Internet webcast, no earlier than ten (10) business days following the posting 
of the PTRR (as described in Section II.C of these protocols) and no later than November 15.  No 
fewer than seven (7) days prior to such Annual Projected Rate Meeting, ATSI shall provide notice 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 6 
on PJM’s website of the time, date, and  webcast registration information of the Annual Projected 
Rate Meeting, and PJM shall provide notice of the posting via an email exploder list.  The Annual 
Projected Rate Meeting shall: (i) permit ATSI to explain and clarify its PTRR and (ii) provide 
Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and clarifications from ATSI about the 
PTRR. 
Section III. Information Exchange Procedures 
Each Annual Update and PTRR shall be subject to the following information exchange procedures 
(“Information Exchange Procedures”): 
A. Interested Parties shall have until January 15 following the Publication Date (unless such period 
is extended with the written consent of ATSI or by FERC order) to serve reasonable information 
and document requests on ATSI (“Information Exchange Period”).  If January 15 falls on a 
weekend or a holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for submitting all information and 
document requests shall be extended to the next business day.  Such information and document 
requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine: 
1. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
2. whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded in accordance with 
these protocols, or includes data not properly recorded in accordance with these 
protocols; 
3. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these protocols; 
4. the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations shown in 
the ATRR or PTRR; 
5. the reasonableness and prudence of costs and expenditures included in the ATRR or 
PTRR, information concerning which may include ATSI’s utilized procurement methods 
and cost control methodologies, and the basis for and reasonableness of allocating all or 
any portion of such costs and expenditures to wholesale transmission service; 
6. whether transmission projects or equipment purchases underlying the costs and 
expenditures included in the ATRR or PTRR are needed for service during the Rate Year 
(including as part of a larger multi-year transmission project or equipment purchase 
program, as applicable);  
7. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form 
No. 1; or 
8. any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on the calculation of 
the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
The information and document requests shall not otherwise be directed to ascertaining whether the 
Formula Rate is just and reasonable. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 7 
B. ATSI shall make a good faith effort to respond to information and document requests within 
fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such requests.  ATSI shall respond to all information and 
document requests by no later than February 25 following the Publication Date, unless the 
Information Exchange Period is extended by ATSI or FERC. 
C. ATSI will serve all information requests from Interested Parties and ATSI’s response(s) to such 
requests upon any Interested Party that requests such service, subject to the protection of any 
confidential information contained in such information requests or responses, as needed, under 
non-disclosure agreements that are based on FERC’s Model Protective Order. 
D. ATSI shall not claim that responses to information and document requests provided pursuant to 
these protocols are subject to any settlement privilege in any proceeding addressing ATSI’s 
Annual Update or PTRR, and such responses may be included in any Formal Challenge or other 
submittal addressing ATSI’s Annual Update or PTRR.  
Section IV. Challenge Procedures 
A. Interested Parties shall have until March 15 following the Publication Date (unless such period 
is extended with the written consent of ATSI or by FERC order) to review the inputs, supporting 
explanations, allocations and calculations and to notify ATSI in writing, which may be made 
electronically, of any specific Preliminary Challenges to the Annual Update or PTRR.  The 
period of time from the Publication Date until March 15 shall be referred to as the Review 
Period.  If March 15 falls on a weekend or a holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for 
submitting all Preliminary Challenges shall be extended to the next business day.  Failure to 
pursue an issue through a Preliminary Challenge or to lodge a Formal Challenge regarding any 
issue as to a given Annual Update or PTRR shall bar pursuit of such issue with respect to that 
Annual Update or PTRR under the challenge procedures set forth in these protocols, but shall not 
bar pursuit of such issue or the lodging of a Formal Challenge as to such issue as it relates to a 
subsequent Annual Update or PTRR.  This Section IV.A shall in no way affect a party’s rights 
under section 206 of the Federal Power Act.  
B. Preliminary Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in this 
Section IV and shall satisfy all of the following requirements. 
1. A party submitting a Preliminary Challenge to ATSI must specify the inputs, supporting 
explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information to which it objects, and 
provide an appropriate explanation and documents to support its challenge. 
2. ATSI shall make a good faith effort to respond to any Preliminary Challenge within 
twenty (20) business days of notification of such challenge. 
3. ATSI, and where applicable, PJM, shall appoint a senior representative to work with the 
party that submitted the Preliminary Challenge (or its representative) toward a 
resolution of the challenge. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 8 
4. If ATSI disagrees with such challenge, ATSI will provide the Interested Party(ies) with an 
explanation supporting the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations, calculations, or 
other information. 
5. No Preliminary Challenge may be submitted after March 15, and ATSI must respond to 
all Preliminary Challenges by no later than April 15 unless the Review Period is 
extended by ATSI or FERC, or as provided in Section IV.A above. 
6. ATSI will serve all Preliminary Challenges from Interested Parties and ATSI’s 
response(s) to such Preliminary Challenges upon any Interested Party that requests such 
service, subject to the protection of any confidential information contained in such 
Preliminary Challenges or responses, as needed, under non-disclosure agreements that 
are based on the FERC’s Model Protective Order. 
C. Formal Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in this Section 
IV. Formal Challenges shall be filed pursuant to these protocols and shall satisfy all of the 
following requirements. 
1. A Formal Challenge shall: 
a. Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the filed rate 
formula or protocols; 
b. Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed rate formula or protocols; 
c. Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues presented by the 
action or inaction as such relate to or affect the party filing the Formal 
Challenge, including: 
(i) the extent or effect of an Accounting Change;   
(ii) whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded in 
accordance with these protocols, or includes data not properly recorded 
in accordance with these protocols; 
(iii) the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these 
protocols; 
(iv) the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
charges shown in the ATRR or PTRR; 
(v) the reasonableness and prudence of actual costs and expenditures 
included in the ATRR; 
(vi) the reasonableness of any projection that forms a basis of the PTRR;  
(vii) whether transmission projects or equipment purchases underlying the 
costs and expenditures included in the ATRR or PTRR are needed for 
service during the Rate Year (including as part of a larger multi-year 
transmission project or equipment purchase program, as applicable); 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 9 
(viii) the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or 
FERC Form No. 1; or 
(ix) any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on 
the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
d. Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if any) 
created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of the challenged 
action or inaction; 
e. State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing Commission 
proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the filing party is a 
party, and if so, provide an explanation why timely resolution cannot be achieved 
in that forum; 
f. State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for stay or 
extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
g. Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in 
possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, including, but not 
limited to, contracts and affidavits; and 
h. State whether the filing party utilized the Preliminary Challenge procedures 
described in these protocols with regard to any issue. 
2. Service.  Any person filing a Formal Challenge must serve a copy of the Formal 
Challenge on ATSI. Service to ATSI must be simultaneous with filing at the Commission. 
Simultaneous service can be accomplished by electronic mail in accordance with 18 
C.F.R. § 385.2010(f)(3), facsimile, express delivery, or messenger. The party filing the 
Formal Challenge shall serve the individual listed as the contact person on ATSI’s 
Informational Filing required under Section VI of these protocols. 
D. Preliminary and Formal Challenges shall be limited to all issues relating to: 
1. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
2. whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded in accordance with 
these protocols, or includes data not properly recorded in accordance with these 
protocols; 
3. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these protocols; 
4. the accuracy of data and consistency with the formula rate of the calculations shown in 
the ATRR and PTRR; 
5. the reasonableness and prudence of actual costs and expenditures included in the ATRR; 
6. the reasonableness of any projection that forms a basis of the PTRR; 
7. whether transmission projects or equipment purchases underlying the costs and 
expenditures included in the ATRR or PTRR are needed for service during the Rate Year 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 10 
(including as part of a larger multi-year transmission project or equipment purchase 
program, as applicable); 
8. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form 
No. 1; or 
9. any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on the calculation of 
the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
E. Any changes or adjustments to the ATRR and PTRR resulting from the information exchange and 
Preliminary Challenge processes that are agreed to by ATSI will be reported in the Informational 
Filing required pursuant to Section VI of these protocols. Any such changes or adjustments 
agreed to by ATSI on or before December 1 will be reflected in the PTRR for the upcoming Rate 
Year. Any changes or adjustments agreed to by ATSI after December 1 will be reflected in the 
following year’s Annual Update, as discussed in Section V of these protocols. 
F. An Interested Party shall have until June 1 following the Review Period (unless such date is 
extended with the written consent of ATSI to continue efforts to resolve the Preliminary 
Challenge) to make a Formal Challenge with FERC, which shall be served on ATSI on the date of 
such filing as specified in Section IV.C.2 above. A Formal Challenge shall be filed in the same 
docket as ATSI’s Informational Filing discussed in Section VI of these protocols. ATSI shall 
respond to the Formal Challenge by the deadline established by FERC. An Interested Party may 
not pursue a Formal Challenge unless it submitted a Preliminary Challenge on some issue 
(which may be different from the Formal Challenge issue) during the applicable Review Period. 
G. In any proceeding initiated by FERC concerning the Annual Update or PTRR or in response to a 
Formal Challenge, ATSI shall bear the burden, consistent with section 205 of the Federal Power 
Act, of proving that it has correctly applied the terms of the Formula Rate consistent with these 
protocols, that it followed the applicable requirements and procedures in the Formula Rate, and 
that the charges resulting from application of the Formula Rate are just and reasonable 
consistent with the filed Formula Rate, as required by Midwest Independent Transmission System 
Operator, Inc., 143 FERC ¶ 61,149 at P 120 (2013). Nothing herein is intended to alter the 
burdens applied by FERC with respect to prudence challenges.  
H. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any way the 
right of ATSI to file unilaterally, pursuant to Federal Power Act section 205 and the regulations 
thereunder, to change the Formula Rate or any of its inputs (including, but not limited to, rate of 
return and transmission incentive rate treatment), or to replace the Formula Rate with a stated 
rate, or the right of any other party to request such changes pursuant to section 206 of the 
Federal Power Act and the regulations thereunder. 
 
1. With respect to the Rate of Return on Common Equity (“ROE”) set forth in Note P of the 
Formula Rate Template, ATSI shall not file unilaterally under Federal Power Act section 
205, and no other party shall file under section 206 of the Federal Power Act to: (i) 
modify (a) the 12.38% ROE through June 30, 2015; (b) the 11.06% ROE for the period 
July 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015; and (c) the 10.38% ROE for the period 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 11 
commencing January 1, 2016, with an effective date prior to January 1, 2018; or (ii) 
modify this sentence. 
 
I. No party shall seek to modify the Formula Rate under the challenge procedures set forth in these 
protocols and the Annual Update and PTRR shall not be subject to challenge by anyone for the 
purpose of modifying the Formula Rate. Any modifications to the Formula Rate will require, as 
applicable, a Federal Power Act section 205 or section 206 filing. 
J. Any Interested Party seeking changes to the application of the Formula Rate due to a change in 
the Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 shall first raise the matter with ATSI in 
accordance with this Section IV before pursuing a Formal Challenge. 
Section V. Changes to Actual Transmission Revenue Requirement or Projected Transmission 
Revenue Requirement 
A. Except as provided in Section IV.E of these protocols, any changes to the data inputs, including 
but not limited to revisions to ATSI’s FERC Form No. 1, or as the result of any FERC proceeding 
to consider the ATRR or PTRR, or as a result of the procedures set forth herein, shall be 
incorporated into the Formula Rate and the charges produced by the Formula Rate in the PTRR 
for the next Rate Year. This reconciliation mechanism shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year 
adjustments. Interest on any refund or surcharge shall be calculated in accordance with the 
procedures outlined in Section VII of these protocols. 
B. In the event that ATSI identifies an error in the Annual Update (or its FERC Form No. 1 or 
successor form which is used as an input to the Formula Rate), or if ATSI is required by 
applicable law or a court or regulatory body to correct such an error, ATSI shall correct the 
error in good faith and without regard to whether the correction increases or decreases ATSI’s 
revenue requirements.  ATSI shall implement the correction in the next Annual Update following 
the identification of the error or the order of a court or regulatory body.  Nothing in these 
protocols should or may be construed as preventing Interested Parties or FERC from protesting 
such correction.   
Section VI. Informational Filings 
A. By May 1 of each year, ATSI shall submit to FERC in a new docket an informational filing 
(“Informational Filing”) of its PTRR for the Rate Year, including its ATRR and True-up reflected 
in that PTRR. This Informational Filing must include information sufficient to determine: 
1. that input data under the Formula Rate are properly recorded in any underlying 
workpapers; 
2. that ATSI has properly applied the Formula Rate and these procedures; 
3. the accuracy of data and the consistency with the Formula Rate of the transmission 
revenue requirement and rates under review; 
4. the extent of Accounting Changes that affect Formula Rate inputs; and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 12 
5. the reasonableness and prudence of actual or projected costs. 
The Informational Filing must also describe any corrections or adjustments made during the 
period since the Publication Date, and must describe all aspects of the Formula Rate or its inputs 
that are the subject of an ongoing dispute under the Preliminary or Formal Challenge 
procedures. Within five (5) days of such Informational Filing, PJM shall provide notice of the 
Informational Filing via an email exploder list and by posting the docket number assigned to 
ATSI’s Informational Filing on the PJM website, subject to the protection of any confidential 
information contained in the Informational Filing, as needed, under nondisclosure agreements 
that are based on FERC’s Model Protective Order.  
B. Any challenges to the implementation of the ATSI formula rate must be made through the 
challenge procedures described in Section IV of these protocols or in a separate complaint 
proceeding, and not in response to the Informational Filing. 
Section VII. Calculation of True-up 
The True-up will be determined in the following manner: 
A. As part of the Annual Update for each Rate Year, ATSI shall determine the difference between 
the revenues collected by PJM based on the PTRR for the Rate Year (net of the True-up from the 
prior year) and the ATRR for the same Rate Year based on actual cost data as reflected in its 
FERC Form No. 1. The True-up will be determined as follows: 
i. The ATRR for the previous Rate Year as determined using ATSI’s completed FERC 
Form No. 1 report shall be compared to the revenues collected by PJM based on the 
PTRR (net of the True-up from the prior year) for that same Rate Year (“True-up Year”) 
to determine any excess or shortfall in the revenues collected by PJM in the True-up 
Year. The revenue excess or shortfall determined by this comparison shall constitute the 
“True-up.” 
ii. Interest on any True-up shall be based on the Commission’s interest rate on refunds as 
determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a. Interest rates will be used to calculate 
the time value of money for the period that the True-up exists. The interest rate to be 
applied to the True-up will be determined using the average rate for the twenty (20) 
months preceding September of the current year.  
B. ATSI will post on PJM’s website all information relating to the True-up as part of the Annual 
Update. 
Section VIII. Formula Rate Inputs 
A. Stated inputs to the Formula Rate Template:  For (i) rate of return on common equity; (ii) “Post-
Employment Benefits other than Pension” pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions 
(“PBOP”) charges; and (iii) depreciation and/or amortization rates, the values shall be stated 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-21B - ATSI Protocol 
Effective Date: 1/1/2015 - Docket #: ER15-303-002 - Page 13 
values to be used in the Formula Rate until changed pursuant to a Federal Power Act section 205 
or section 206 filing.  These stated-value inputs are specified in Notes P, BB, and U, respectively, 
of the Formula Rate Template. 
B.  Unpopulated Formula Rate line items:  With respect to line items in the Formula Rate that are 
not currently populated with non-zero numerical values because FERC policy requires prior 
authorization for recovery of the underlying costs or because, due to the nature of the associated 
functional activities, such costs are not considered part of ATSI’s transmission-related revenue 
requirement (but not line items that are zero values in a particular Rate Year for the sole reason 
that no such costs or revenues were incurred or revenues received or projected to be incurred or 
received during the Rate Year), such line items shall not be populated with non-zero values 
except as may be authorized following a Federal Power Act section 205 filing or required under 
Federal Power Act section 206.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-22 - DEOK - Annual Transmission Rates 
Effective Date: 1/1/2012 - Docket #: ER12-91-009 (Compliance) - Page 1 
