ATTACHMENT L 
List of Transmission Owners 
 
Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
American Transmission Systems, Incorporated 
Atlantic City Electric Company 
Baltimore Gas and Electric Company 
Delmarva Power & Light Company 
Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. 
Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. 
East Kentucky Power Cooperative, Inc. 
Essential Power Rock Springs, LLC 
Hudson Transmission Partners, LLC 
Jersey Central Power & Light Company 
Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission, LLC 
Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC 
Old Dominion Electric Cooperative 
PECO Energy Company 
Pennsylvania Power & Light Company 
Potomac Electric Power Company 
Public Service Electric and Gas Company 
Rockland Electric Company 
Trans-Allegheny Interstate Line Company 
Transource West Virginia, LLC 
UGI Utilities, Inc. 
Monongahela Power Company and The Potomac Edison Company, doing business as Allegheny 
Power 
Commonwealth Edison Company and Commonwealth Edison Company of Indiana, Inc. 
The Dayton Power and Light Company  
 American Electric Power Service Corporation on behalf of its affiliate companies: AEP 
Appalachian Transmission Company, Inc.; AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, 
Inc.; AEP Kentucky Transmission Company, Inc.; AEP Ohio Transmission Company, Inc.; 
AEP West Virginia Transmission Company, Inc.; Appalachian Power Company; Indiana 
Michigan Power Company; Kentucky Power Company; Kingsport Power Company; Ohio 
Power Company and Wheeling Power Company 
Duquesne Light Company 
Virginia Electric and Power Company 
Linden VFT, LLC 
City of Cleveland, Department of Public Utilities, Division of Cleveland Public Power 
City of Hamilton, OH 
Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
Ohio Valley Electric Corporation 
AMP Transmission, LLC 
Silver Run Electric, LLC 
NextEra Energy Transmission MidAtlantic Indiana, Inc. 
Wabash Valley Power Association, Inc. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT L List of Transmission Owners 
Effective Date: 7/10/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1995-000 - Page 2 
Keystone Appalachian Transmission Company 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT M 
PJM MARKET MONITORING PLAN 
 
References to section numbers in this Attachment M refer to sections of this Attachment M, 
unless otherwise specified. 
 
I. OBJECTIVES 
 
The objectives of this PJM Market Monitoring Plan are to maintain an independent Market 
Monitoring Unit that will objectively monitor, investigate, evaluate and report on the PJM 
Markets, including, but not limited to, structural, design or operational flaws in the PJM Markets 
or the exercise of market power or manipulation in the PJM Markets. The Market Monitoring 
Unit shall have responsibility for implementing the Plan. In the event of any conflict between a 
provision in the Plan and a provision of the PJM Market Rules, the provision of the Plan shall 
control. 
 
II. [Reserved for Future Use]  
 
III. MARKET MONITORING UNIT 
 
 A.  Establishment:  PJM shall establish or retain a Market Monitoring Unit to 
perform the functions set forth in this Plan. 
 
 B.  Composition:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall be comprised of personnel 
having the experience and qualifications necessary to implement this Plan. In carrying out its 
responsibilities, the Market Monitoring Unit may retain such consultants, attorneys and experts 
as it deems necessary.   
 
 C. Independence:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall be independent from, and not 
subject to, the direction or supervision of any person or entity, with the exception of the PJM 
Board as specified in section III.D above, and the Commission.  No person or entity shall have 
the right to preview, screen, alter, delete, or otherwise exercise editorial control over or delay 
Market Monitoring Unit actions or investigations or the findings, conclusions, and 
recommendations developed by the Market Monitoring Unit that fall within the scope of market 
monitoring responsibilities contained in this Plan.  Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to 
exempt the Market Monitoring Unit from any applicable provision of state or federal law. 
 
 D. Role of PJM Board:  
 
  1. The PJM Board shall have the authority and responsibility:  
 
a. To review the budget of the Market Monitoring Unit, consistent 
with the budget processes and requirements set forth in section III.E 
below.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 2 
b. To propose to terminate, retain by contract renewal or replace the 
Market Monitoring Unit, consistent with the requirements of section III.F 
below. 
 
  2. The PJM Board and the Market Monitor shall meet and confer from time 
to time on matters relevant to the discharge of the PJM Board’s and the Market Monitoring 
Unit’s duties under this Plan. 
 
  3. Other than the matters set forth in sections III.D.1 and D.2 above, the PJM 
Board shall have no responsibility for, or authority over, the Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
 E. Budget:   
 
  1. Preparation:  The Market Monitor shall prepare a budget each year of its 
expenses on an accrual basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that is 
sufficient to cover the anticipated actual costs to perform the services under this Plan, including, 
but not limited to, salary and benefits, rent and utilities, interest, depreciation and other operating 
expenses.   
 
  2. Review:  The Market Monitor shall, not later than September 15, submit a 
draft budget to the Finance Committee, OPSI Advisory Committee, and PJM Board for review 
and comment.  The draft budget shall include total labor compensation, non-employee labor 
expense, current full-time employee and contractor head count, depreciation expense, interest 
expense, technology expense, other expense and capital spending, including a level of supporting 
detail consistent with that provided by PJM in its annual budget review to the Finance 
Committee.  The draft budget shall also be made available for inspection by the PJM members.  
The Finance Committee, OPSI Advisory Committee, and PJM Board shall have until October 15 
to request changes in the budget.  The Market Monitor shall consider those requests and, if they 
are not accepted by the Market Monitor, it shall provide, in writing, to the foregoing and to PJM 
members, an explanation of the reasons they are not acceptable.  If, after discussing requested 
changes with such entities, there is no remaining dispute over such requested changes, the 
mutually agreeable budget shall go into effect on January 1 of the subsequent year.   
 
  3. Commission Action:  If despite the foregoing process, there remains a 
dispute regarding the budget, PJM shall, not later than November 1, file the Market Monitor's 
proposed budget with the Commission for resolution of the dispute.   PJM shall accompany such 
filing with an explanation of the nature of the dispute and any position of the PJM Board on such 
dispute.  Any interested person may also file comments on such dispute.  The fact that PJM is 
submitting the dispute for Commission review shall not be deemed to provide the views of the 
PJM Board any special weight, nor subject them to any special burden of proof.  If the 
Commission has not taken action by December 31, the Market Monitor's proposed budget, filed 
by PJM, shall take effect, subject to any subsequent Commission order.   
 
  4. Intra-year Amendments to the Budget:  If the Market Monitor requires 
an intra-year amendment to the budget to perform its functions under the Plan, it shall provide 
the proposed amendment, the reasons for the proposed amendment and reasonable supporting 
detail to the Finance Committee, OPSI Advisory Committee and the PJM Board for review and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 3 
comment, and if any dispute regarding such proposed amendment remains 30 days thereafter, 
PJM shall file the proposed budget amendment with the Commission for resolution of the 
dispute.  The proposed budget amendment and supporting explanation shall also be made 
available for inspection by the PJM members.  
 
  5. Rates:  The Market Monitor’s approved budget shall be collected pursuant 
to Tariff, Schedule 9-MMU. 
 
 F. Term and Termination:  
 
  1. Term:  Upon the effective date of this revised Attachment M, there shall 
be a contract between PJM and the Market Monitoring Unit that has an initial term of six (6) 
years.  Upon the expiration of that initial six (6) year term, the contract may be renewed for 
subsequent term(s) of three (3) years if both parties agree.  If the PJM Board does not agree to 
renew the contract at the end of its term, it may propose to terminate the contract pursuant to the 
standards and processes set forth below. 
 
  2. Standards for Proposed Termination:   
 
a. Termination During Contract Term.  During the term of any 
contract with the Market Monitoring Unit, the PJM Board may propose to 
terminate the contract as follows: 
 
(1) During the first three (3) years following the effective date 
of this revised Attachment M, the PJM Board may propose to 
terminate the contract with the Market Monitoring Unit upon a 
determination of willful misconduct or gross negligence by the 
Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
(2) Following the expiration of this initial three (3) year period, 
the PJM Board may, during the term of any contract with the 
Market Monitoring Unit (or any successor Market Monitoring 
Unit), propose to terminate the contract with the Market 
Monitoring Unit upon a determination that the Market Monitoring 
Unit has not adequately performed its functions set forth in this 
Plan. 
 
b. Termination at End of Contract Term.  At the end of the term of 
any contract with the Market Monitoring Unit, the PJM Board may 
propose to terminate the contract with the Market Monitoring Unit (or any 
successor Market Monitoring Unit) (1) upon a determination that the 
Market Monitoring Unit has not adequately performed the functions set 
forth in this Plan, or (2) pursuant to an open, nondiscriminatory and 
transparent request for proposals. 
 
 3. Process for Proposed Termination and Replacement:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 4 
a. Notice.  If the PJM Board proposes to terminate the contract with 
the Market Monitoring Unit pursuant to the standards set forth in section 
III.F.2 above, it shall provide one hundred twenty (120) days prior notice 
to the Market Monitoring Unit, the OPSI Advisory Committee, MMU 
Advisory Committee and the PJM members.   
 
b. Contents of Notice.  The notice shall include the following 
information: 
 
(1) If the PJM Board proposes to terminate the contract with 
the Market Monitoring Unit based on willful misconduct or gross 
negligence, it shall set forth in detail the conduct that supports such 
determination and shall propose an open and transparent process 
(such as a request for proposals) for selecting a new Market 
Monitoring Unit.   
 
(2) If the PJM Board proposes to terminate the contract with 
the Market Monitoring Unit because it has not adequately 
performed its functions under this Plan, it shall set forth in detail 
the performance deficiencies that support that determination and 
shall propose an open and transparent process (such as a request 
for proposals) for selecting a new Market Monitoring Unit.   
 
(3) If the PJM Board proposes to conduct a request for 
proposals to determine whether to replace the Market Monitoring 
Unit at the end of a contract term, it shall propose an open, 
nondiscriminatory and transparent request for proposals and shall 
allow the existing Market Monitoring Unit to submit a bid or 
proposal in that process.  Any such notice shall set forth in detail 
the criteria applicable to such request for proposals.  Such criteria 
shall be subject to comment as provided in section III.F.3.c below 
and subject to approval by the Commission.   
 
c. Comments on the Notice.  Within forty-five (45) days of any such 
notice, the Market Monitoring Unit, the OPSI Advisory Committee, MMU 
Advisory Committee, any PJM member or any stakeholder may provide 
advice or comment to the PJM Board regarding the proposed termination 
and/or the proposed process for selecting a new Market Monitoring Unit.  
The PJM Board shall take such advice or comment into account in 
reaching a final determination as to whether to propose to terminate the 
contract with the Market Monitoring Unit and, if so, the process for 
selecting a new Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
d. FERC Filing.  Upon the expiration of the one hundred twenty 
(120) day prior notice period, the PJM Board may, after considering the 
advice and comment provided pursuant to section III.F.3.c above, propose 
in a filing to FERC that the contract with the Market Monitoring Unit be 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 5 
terminated.  Any such proposal shall include a detailed explanation of the 
reasons therefor, including an explanation of why the standards set forth in 
section III.F.2 above have been satisfied, and an open, nondiscriminatory 
and transparent process for selecting a new Market Monitoring Unit.  The 
Market Monitoring Unit, OPSI Advisory Committee and any interested 
stakeholder may submit to FERC such comments, protests or other 
documents and advice as appropriate on such filing. 
 
e. Termination.  The contract with the Market Monitoring Unit shall 
not be terminated until (1) FERC has reviewed a termination proposal by 
the PJM Board and any comments or protests submitted by interested 
parties thereon (including the OPSI Advisory Committee), (2) FERC has 
made a finding that the PJM Board has demonstrated that termination is 
justified pursuant to the standards set forth in section III.F.2 above, (3) 
FERC has approved a process for selecting a new Market Monitoring 
Unit, and (4) a new Market Monitoring Unit has been selected pursuant to 
such FERC-approved process.   
 
 G. OPSI Advisory Committee:  There shall be an OPSI Advisory Committee 
comprised of five (5) representatives appointed by the Organization of PJM States, Inc.  The 
OPSI Advisory Committee shall meet with the Market Monitoring Unit on a regular basis and as 
otherwise necessary to receive and discuss information relevant to this Plan.  In addition to the 
specific responsibilities regarding budget and termination set forth in sections III.E and III.F 
above, the OPSI Advisory Committee may provide advice to the Commission, Market Monitor, 
the PJM Board, stakeholder committees, and stakeholder working groups regarding any matter 
concerning the Market Monitor, Market Monitoring Unit or Market Monitoring Plan.  Any 
formal advice shall be in writing and, subject to confidentiality provisions, shall be made 
publicly available. 
 
 H. Market Monitoring Unit Advisory Committee:  There shall be an MMU 
Advisory Committee, chaired by the Market Monitor, that is open to all stakeholders and 
representatives of Authorized Government Agencies.  The MMU Advisory Committee shall act 
as a liaison between stakeholders and the MMU and shall provide advice from time to time on 
matters relevant to the MMU's responsibilities under this Plan.  The MMU Advisory Committee 
shall have no authority to direct, supervise, review, or otherwise interfere with the functions of 
the MMU under this Plan, nor any authority to terminate or propose to terminate the Market 
Monitor. 
 
 I. PJM Liaison:  PJM may appoint an employee to act as liaison with the Market 
Monitoring Unit.  The function of the liaison will be to facilitate communications between PJM 
employees and the Market Monitoring Unit, as defined in section V.E below.   
 
IV. MARKET MONITORING UNIT FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
 A. General:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall objectively monitor the 
competitiveness of PJM Markets, investigate violations of FERC or PJM Market Rules, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 6 
recommend changes to PJM Market Rules, prepare reports for the Authorized Government 
Agencies and take such other actions as are specified in this Plan. 
 
 B. Monitored Activities:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall be responsible for 
monitoring the following: 
 
  1. Compliance with the PJM Market Rules. 
 
  2. Actual or potential design flaws in the PJM Market Rules.  
 
  3. Structural problems in the PJM Markets that may inhibit a robust and 
competitive market. 
 
  4. The potential for a Market Participant to exercise market power or violate 
any of the PJM or FERC Market Rules or the actual exercise of market power or violation of the 
PJM or FERC Market Rules. 
 
  5. PJM’s implementation of the PJM Market Rules or operation of the PJM 
Markets, as further set forth in section IV.C below. 
  
  6. Such matters as are necessary to prepare the reports set forth in Section 
VI. 
 
 C. Monitoring of PJM:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall monitor PJM's 
implementation of the PJM Market Rules and operation of the PJM Markets.  If the Market 
Monitoring Unit disagrees with the implementation of the PJM Market Rules or the operation of 
the PJM Markets, the Market Monitoring Unit may so advise PJM. Excepting matters governed 
by section IV.I below, if the disagreement cannot be resolved informally, the Market Monitoring 
Unit may inform the Commission, Authorized Government Agencies, or the PJM members.  The 
Market Monitoring Unit shall have no authority to direct PJM to modify its operation of the PJM 
Markets or implementation of the PJM Market Rules. 
 
 C-1. Monitoring of ITCs: The Market Monitoring Unit shall monitor the services 
provided by the independent transmission companies (ITCs), and the ITC-PJM relationship, to 
detect any problems that may inhibit a robust and competitive market.  Transactions utilizing the 
ITC Transmission Facilities shall be subject to the authority of the Market Monitoring Unit on 
the same basis as transactions involving any other Market Participant using other portions of the 
Transmission System. This provision is also found in Tariff, Attachment U, section 12.1. 
 
 D. Monitoring of PJM Market Rules, PJM Tariff and Market Design:  PJM is 
responsible for proposing for approval by the Commission, consistent with tariff procedures and 
applicable law, changes to the PJM Market Rules, PJM Tariff and design of the PJM Markets.  
The Market Monitoring Unit shall evaluate and monitor existing and proposed PJM Market 
Rules, PJM Tariff provisions, and the design of the PJM Markets.  However, if the Market 
Monitoring Unit detects a design flaw or other problem with the PJM Markets, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall not effectuate its proposed market design since that is the responsibility of 
the Office of the Interconnection.  The Market Monitoring Unit may initiate and propose, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 7 
through the appropriate stakeholder processes, changes to the design of such markets, as well as 
changes to the PJM Market Rules and PJM Tariff.  In support of this function, the Market 
Monitoring Unit may engage in discussions with stakeholders, State Commissions, PJM 
Management, or the PJM Board; participate in PJM stakeholder meetings or working groups 
regarding market design matters; publish proposals, reports or studies on such market design 
issues; and make filings with the Commission on market design issues.   The Market Monitoring 
Unit may also recommend changes to the PJM Market Rules and PJM Tariff provisions to the 
staff of the Commission’s Office of Energy Market Regulation, State Commissions, and the PJM 
Board.  
 
D-1. Market Monitoring Unit Compliance Review:  The Market Monitoring Unit 
shall monitor compliance with PJM Market Rules and shall take action on compliance issues. 
The Market Monitoring Unit has the exclusive authority to perform the functions set forth in 
Tariff, Attachment M-Appendix and in this Attachment M.  If the Market Monitoring Unit 
detects a Market Violation involving potential misconduct, it shall, if the applicable criteria are 
met, refer the matter in accordance with section IV.I below. If the Market Monitoring Unit 
detects a compliance issue and determines that there is an issue about the proper and lawful 
application of a rule, and the Market Monitoring Unit makes a preliminary determination that no 
misconduct is evident and the issue involves a difference about the appropriate calculation of the 
level of an input, the Market Monitoring Unit may file a petition or initiate other regulatory 
proceedings addressing the issue. The Market Monitoring Unit may, where it deems appropriate, 
submit a confidential Referral and initiate a public regulatory proceeding concerning the same 
underlying matter. 
 
 E.  Mitigation: The Market Monitoring Unit may, consistent with the PJM Market 
Rules, recommend to PJM that it take specific mitigation action that PJM is authorized to take 
under the PJM Market Rules to address market behavior or conditions. The Market Monitoring 
Unit shall not, however, have authority to require modification of PJM operational decisions, 
including dispatch instructions. If PJM does not accept the Market Monitoring Unit’s 
recommendations regarding mitigation actions, the Market Monitoring Unit may report its 
mitigation recommendation to the Authorized Government Agencies, Commission staff, State 
Commissions or the PJM members, as the Market Monitoring Unit deems appropriate.  Nothing 
in this Plan shall be deemed to supersede any authority the Market Monitoring Unit may have 
under the PJM Market Rules, nor shall anything in this Plan preclude any person or entity from 
seeking to modify such authority in a filing with the Commission.   
 
E-1. Market Monitoring Unit Market Power Review:  Determinations about market 
power are the responsibility of the Market Monitoring Unit under Tariff, Attachment M-
Appendix and under this Attachment M. The Market Monitoring Unit shall review all proposed 
sell offers for a determination of whether they raise market power concerns. The Market 
Monitoring Unit shall determine whether the level of offer or cost inputs raises market power 
concerns. Tariff,  Attachment M–Appendix sets forth the Market Monitoring Unit’s role in 
evaluating these offer or cost inputs.  The Market Monitoring Unit and market participants shall, 
in accordance with the applicable procedures and as set forth elsewhere in the Tariff, attempt to 
come to agreement about the level or value of offers or cost inputs.  The Market Monitoring Unit 
shall make a determination about whether offer or cost inputs or a decision not to offer a 
committed resource is physical or economic withholding or otherwise involves a potential 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 8 
exercise of market power. In the event that a market participant determines to use an offer or cost 
input at a level or value that the Market Monitoring Unit has found to involve a potential 
exercise of market power, the Market Monitoring Unit may file a petition or initiate other 
regulatory proceedings addressing the issue. If the potential exercise of market power is related 
to a Sell Offer submitted in an RPM Auction, the Market Monitoring Unit may file a complaint 
with the Commission addressing the issue. If, at the time of filing, market prices that have been 
settled and posted could be impacted by the subject of the complaint, the Market Monitoring 
Unit shall refrain from requesting relief from the Commission that would upset such market 
prices and shall limit the requested relief to appropriate restitution and/or penalties from the 
implicated market participant or participants. 
 
 F. Studies or Reports for State Commissions:  Upon request in writing by the 
OPSI Advisory Committee, the Market Monitoring Unit may, in its discretion, provide such 
studies or reports on wholesale market issues, including wholesale market transactions occurring 
under a state-administered auction process, as may affect one or more states within the PJM area.  
Any such request for such a study or report, as well as any resulting study or report, shall be 
made simultaneously available to the public, with simultaneous notice to PJM members, subject 
to the protection of confidential information.   
 
 G. Participation in Stakeholder Processes:  The Market Monitoring Unit may, as it 
deems appropriate or necessary to perform its functions under this Plan, participate (consistent 
with the rules applicable to all PJM stakeholders) in stakeholder working groups, committees or 
other PJM stakeholder processes. 
 
 H. Reports of Wrongdoing to State Commissions:  If during the ordinary course of 
its activities the Market Monitoring Unit discovers evidence of wrongdoing (other than minor 
misconduct) that the Market Monitor reasonably believes to be within a State Commission's 
jurisdiction, the Market Monitoring Unit shall report such information to the State 
Commission(s).  
 
 I. Referrals to the Commission 
 
  1. Required Notice and Referral to Commission of Suspected Market 
Violations:  Immediately upon determining that it has identified a significant market problem or 
a potential Market Violation by a Market Participant or PJM that may require (a) further inquiry 
by the Market Monitoring Unit, (b) Referral for investigation by the Commission and/or (c) 
action by the Commission, the Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Commission’s Office of 
Enforcement (or any successor), either orally or in writing.  Nothing in this section IV.I.1 shall 
limit the ability of the Market Monitoring Unit to engage in discussions with any such Market 
Participant as provided in section IV.J.1 below. 
 
In addition to the notification requirement above, where the Market Monitoring Unit has reason 
to believe, based on sufficient credible information, that the behavior of a Market Participant or 
PJM may require investigation, including but not limited to suspected Market Violations, the 
Market Monitoring Unit will refer the matter to the Commission’s Office of Enforcement (or any 
successor) in the manner described below.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 9 
Such a Referral shall be in writing, non-public, addressed to the Commission’s Director of the 
Office of Enforcement, with a copy directed to the Commission’s Director of the Office of 
Energy Market Regulation and the General Counsel,  and should include, but need not be limited 
to, the following sufficient credible information to warrant further investigation by the 
Commission: 
 
  a. The name(s) of and, if possible, the contact information for, the Market 
Participants that allegedly took the action(s) that constitute that alleged Market Violation(s); 
 
  b. The date(s) or time period during which the alleged Market Violation(s) 
occurred and whether the alleged wrongful conduct is ongoing; 
 
  c. The specific rule, regulation, and/or tariff provision(s) that were allegedly 
violated or the nature of any inappropriate dispatch that may have occurred; 
 
  d. The specific act(s) or conduct that allegedly constituted the Market 
Violation; 
 
  e. The consequences to the market resulting from the act(s) or conduct, 
including, if known, an estimate of economic impact on the market;  
 
  f. If the Market Monitoring Unit believes that the act(s) or conduct 
constituted a violation of the anti-manipulation rule of 18 C.F.R. § 1c.2, a description of the 
alleged manipulative effect on market prices, market conditions, or market rules; and 
 
  g. Any other information that the Market Monitoring Unit believes is 
relevant and may be helpful to the Commission. 
 
 The Referral may be transmitted to the Commission electronically, by fax, by mail or by 
courier.  The Market Monitoring Unit may also provide the Commission with oral notice of the 
alleged Market Violation in advance of the submission of a written, non-public Referral.  
Following the submission of such a Referral, the Market Monitoring Unit will continue to inform 
the Commission staff of any information relating to the Referral that it discovers within the 
scope of its regular monitoring function, but it shall desist from, and not independently undertake 
any investigative steps regarding, the alleged Market Violation or Referral except at the express 
direction of the Commission or Commission staff.  The Market Monitoring Unit must also 
respond to requests of the Commission for additional information in connection with the alleged 
Market Violation that it has referred.  The Market Monitoring Unit is not precluded from 
continuing to monitor for any repeated instances of the activity in question by the same or other 
Market Participants, which activity would constitute new Market Violations. 
 
 The foregoing notwithstanding, a clear, objectively identifiable violation of the following 
PJM Market Rules, which provide for an explicit remedy that has been accepted by the 
Commission and can be administered by PJM, shall not be subject to the provisions of this 
section IV.I.1:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 10 
a. Default in obligations to the Office of the Interconnection by a Market Participant 
in violation of Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.7.10(a)(v) and the parallel provisions 
of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.7.10(a)(v). 
 
b. Default in obligations to the Office of the Interconnection by a Market Participant 
in violation of Operating Agreement, Schedile 1, section 1.7.19B(e) and the parallel provisions 
of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.7.19B(e). 
 
c. Failure of a Capacity Market Seller or Locational UCAP Seller to obtain 
replacement Unforced Capacity to the extent a Generation Capacity Resource that it committed 
for a Delivery Year is unavailable due to a planned or maintenance outage that occurs during the 
Peak Season without approval of the Office of the Interconnection, in violation of Tariff, 
