[ATTACHMENT H-10B - Part 5 of 5]

g. Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in 
possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, including, but 
not limited to, contracts and affidavits; and 
2. Service. Any person filing a Formal Challenge must serve a copy of such Formal 
Challenge on the SFCs.  Service to the SFCs must be simultaneous with filing at 
FERC. Simultaneous service can be accomplished by electronic mail in 
accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 385.2010, express delivery, or messenger.  A party 
filing a Formal Challenge shall serve the individual listed as the contact person on 
the SFCs’ Informational Filing required under Section VI of these Protocols. 
D. Preliminary and Formal Challenges shall be limited to all issues that may be necessary to 
determine: 
1. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
2. whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded in 
accordance with these Protocols, or includes data not properly recorded in 
accordance with these Protocols; 
3. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these Protocols; 
4. the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations 
shown in the ATRR and PTRR; 
5. the prudence of actual costs and expenditures included as inputs to the Formula 
Rate; 
6. the reasonableness of any projection that forms a basis of the PTRR; 
7. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or 
FERC Form No. 1; or 
8. any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
E. Any changes or adjustments to the ATRR and PTRR resulting from the information 
exchange and Preliminary Challenge processes that are agreed to by the SFCs will be 
reported in the Informational Filing required pursuant to Section VI of these Protocols. 
Any such changes or adjustments agreed to by the SFCs on or before December 1 will 
be reflected in the PTRR for the upcoming Rate Year. Any changes or adjustments 
agreed to by the SFCs after December 1 will be reflected in the following year’s Annual 
Update, as discussed in Section V of these Protocols. 
F. An Interested Party shall have until June 1 following the Review Period (unless such date 
is extended with the written consent of the SFCs to continue efforts to resolve the 
Preliminary Challenge) to make a Formal Challenge with FERC, which shall be served on 
the SFCs on the date of such filing as specified in Section IV.C.2 above. A Formal 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-11B - Allegheny Power Zone 
Effective Date: 1/1/2023 - Docket #: ER21-253-004 - Page 12 
Challenge shall be filed in the same docket as the SFCs’ Informational Filing discussed in 
Section VI of these Protocols. The SFCs shall respond to the Formal Challenge by the 
deadline established by FERC.   
G.  In any proceeding initiated by FERC concerning the Annual Update or PTRR or in 
response to a Formal Challenge, the SFCs shall bear the burden, consistent with FPA 
section 205, of proving that they have correctly applied the terms of the Formula Rate 
consistent with these Protocols, and that they followed the applicable requirements and 
procedures in the Formula Rate. Nothing herein is intended to alter the burdens applied 
by FERC with respect to prudence challenges. 
H.  Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any 
way the right of the SFCs to file unilaterally, pursuant to FPA section 205 and the 
regulations thereunder, to change these Protocols, the Formula Rate, or any of its inputs 
(including, but not limited to, rate of return and transmission incentive rate treatment), 
or to replace the Formula Rate with a stated rate, or the right of any other party to 
request such changes pursuant to FPA section 206. 
I.  No Settling Intervenor shall oppose a filing by the Companies under FPA section 205 (i) 
to change the fixed PBOP calculation in the filed template, (ii) to modify the stated 
values for amortization and depreciation rates in the filed template, (iii) to reflect nominal 
changes to the FERC Form 1 reporting requirements (i.e., changes in account 
descriptions or line numbers that do not reflect changes in the nature or type of costs or 
expenses recorded therein), or (iv) to seek recovery of prudently-incurred abandoned 
plant, on the grounds that such filing is an impermissible single-issue rate filing.  The 
SFCs shall not oppose a filing by any Settling Intervenor under FPA section 206 to 
change the fixed PBOP calculation in the filed template on the grounds that such filing is 
an impermissible single-issue rate filing.  The Parties acknowledge that the Commission 
is not bound by the provision setting forth the agreement between the Parties on single-
issue filings and may at its discretion broaden the scope of the filing related to changes in 
the fixed PBOP calculation in the filed template. 
J.   Any Interested Party seeking changes to the application of the Formula Rate due to a 
change in the Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 shall first raise the 
matter with the SFCs in accordance with this Section IV before pursuing a Formal 
Challenge. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-11B - Allegheny Power Zone 
Effective Date: 1/1/2023 - Docket #: ER21-253-004 - Page 13 
Section V.  Changes to Actual Transmission Revenue Requirement or 
Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement 
Except as provided in Section IV.E of these Protocols, any changes to the data inputs, 
including but not limited to revisions to the SFCs’ FERC Form No. ls, or as the result of 
any FERC proceeding to consider the ATRR or PTRR, or as a result of the procedures set 
forth herein, shall be incorporated into the Formula Rate and the charges produced by the 
Formula Rate in the PTRR for the next Rate Year. This true-up mechanism shall apply in 
lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments. Interest on any refund or surcharge shall be calculated 
in accordance with the procedures outlined in Section VII of these Protocols. 
Section VI.  Informational Filings 
A. By June 15 of each year, the SFCs shall submit to FERC an informational filing 
(“Informational Filing”) of their PTRR for the Rate Year, including their ATRR and 
True-up. This Informational Filing must include information that is reasonably necessary 
to determine: 
1. that input data to the Formula Rate are properly recorded in any underlying 
work papers; 
2. that the SFCs have properly applied the Formula Rate and these Protocols; 
3. the accuracy of data and the consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
transmission revenue requirement and rates under review; 
4. the extent of Accounting Changes that affect Formula Rate inputs; and 
5. the reasonableness of projected costs. 
The Informational Filing must also describe any corrections or adjustments made during 
the period since the Publication Date, and must describe all aspects of the Formula Rate 
or its inputs that are the subject of an ongoing dispute under the Preliminary Challenge or 
Formal Challenge procedures. 
Finally, the Informational Filing shall include for the applicable Rate Year the following 
information related to affiliate cost allocation: a detailed description of the methodologies 
used to allocate and directly assign costs between the SFCs and their affiliates by service 
category or function, including any changes to such cost allocation methodologies from 
the prior Rate Year, and the reasons and justification for those changes; the magnitude of 
such costs that have been allocated or directly assigned between the SFCs and each 
affiliate by service category or function; and a copy of any service agreement between the 
SFCs and any affiliate that went into effect during the Rate Year. 
On the date of submission to FERC, the SFCs shall provide notice of the Informational 
Filing via the e-mail exploder list for the SFCs and by posting the docket number 
assigned to the SFCs’ Informational Filing on the PJM website, subject to the protection 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-11B - Allegheny Power Zone 
Effective Date: 1/1/2023 - Docket #: ER21-253-004 - Page 14 
of any confidential information contained in the Informational Filing, as needed, under 
the Protective Agreement and Non-Disclosure Certificate. 
B. Any challenges to the implementation of the Formula Rate must be made through the 
challenge procedures described in Section IV of these Protocols or in a separate 
complaint proceeding, and not in response to the Informational Filing. 
Section VII.  Calculation of True-up 
The True-up will be determined in the following manner: 
A. As part of the Annual Update for each Rate Year, the SFCs shall determine the 
difference between the revenues received by the SFCs corresponding to the rate effective 
period based on the PTRR for the Rate Year (net of the True-up from the prior year) and 
the ATRR for the same Rate Year based on actual cost data as reflected in their FERC 
Form No. ls. The True-up will be determined as follows: 
1. The ATRR for the previous Rate Year as determined using the SFCs’ 
completed FERC Form No. 1 reports shall be compared to the revenues 
received by the SFCs corresponding to the rate effective period based on the 
PTRR (net of the True-up from the prior year) for that same Rate Year ("True-
up Year") to determine any excess or shortfall in the revenues received by the 
SFCs corresponding to the rate effective period in the True-up Year. The 
revenue excess or shortfall determined by this comparison shall constitute the 
"True-up." 
2. Interest on any True-up shall be based on the interest rate equal to the interest rate 
determined by 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a. Interest rates will be used to calculate the time 
value of money for the period that the True-up exists. The interest rate to be 
applied to the True-up will be determined using the average rate for the twenty 
(20) months preceding September 1 of the current year.  Interest on refunds and 
surcharges shall be compounded on a quarterly basis. 
B. The SFCs will post on PJM's website all information relating to the True-up as part of 
the Annual Update. As provided in Section II.B of these Protocols, the SFCs shall 
provide their Annual Update for the immediately preceding calendar year to PJM and 
cause such information to be posted on the PJM website on or before June 15 of each 
year subsequent to calendar year 2021. 
Section VIII.  Formula Rate Inputs 
A. Fixed components to the Formula Rate: For (i) rate of return on common equity; (ii) 
"Post-Employment Benefits other than Pension" ("PBOP") charges pursuant to 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers' Accounting for 
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions; and (iii) depreciation and/or amortization 
rates, the values in the Formula Rate shall be stated values and may be changed only 
pursuant to a FPA section 205 or section 206 proceeding. These fixed components are 
specified in Attachment 9 of the Formula Rate. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-11B - Allegheny Power Zone 
Effective Date: 1/1/2023 - Docket #: ER21-253-004 - Page 15 
B. Unpopulated Formula Rate line items: With respect to line items in the Formula Rate 
that are not currently populated with non-zero numerical values because FERC policy 
requires prior authorization for recovery of the underlying costs or because, due to the 
nature of the associated functional activities, such costs are not considered part of the 
SFCs’ transmission-related revenue requirement (but not line items that are zero values 
in a particular Rate Year for the sole reason that no such costs or revenues were incurred 
or revenues received or projected to be incurred or received during the Rate Year), such 
line items shall not be populated with non-zero values except as may be authorized 
following a FPA section 205 or section 206 proceeding. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-12 - Rockland Electric Company 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER22-910-004 - Page 1 
