ATTACHMENT H-8 
Annual Transmission Rates -- PPL Group 
for Network Integration Transmission Service 
 
1. The annual transmission revenue requirement is equal to the sum of the individual annual 
transmission revenue requirements of the members of the Zone, which reflects the facilities 
within the Zone of 69 kV and higher voltage.  Service utilizing facilities at voltages below 69 
kV will be provided at rates determined on a case-by-case basis.  The annual transmission 
revenue requirement is composed of: a) $2,584,702 for Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc.; 
b) the result of the formula shown in Attachment H-8C to this attachment and posted on the 
PJM Internet site for UGI Utilities, Inc.; and c) the result of the formula shown in Attachment 
H-8G to this attachment posted on the PJM Internet site for PPL Electric Utilities 
Corporation (“PPL Electric”).  The rate for Network Integration Transmission Service is 
equal to the sum of: a) $392 per megawatt per year for Allegheny Electric Cooperative, Inc.; 
b) the quotient derived by dividing the annual transmission revenue requirement of UGI 
Utilities, Inc., by 6,593 megawatts, as expressed in dollars per megawatt per year, which 
figure shall be posted on the PJM Internet site for UGI Utilities, Inc.; and c) the result of the 
formula shown in Attachment H-8G to this attachment and posted on the PJM Internet site 
for PPL Electric.  The rate determined pursuant to Attachment H-8C shall be implemented 
pursuant to the Formula Rate Implementation Protocols set forth in Attachment H-8D.  The 
rate determined pursuant to Attachment H-8G shall be implemented pursuant to the Formula 
Rate Implementation Protocols set forth in Attachment H-8H. 
 
2. The rate in (1) shall be effective until amended by the Transmission Owner(s) within the 
Zone or modified by the Commission. 
 
3. In addition to the rate set forth in section 1 of this attachment, the Network Customer 
purchasing Network Integration Transmission Service shall pay for transmission congestion 
charges, in accordance with the provisions of the Tariff, and any amounts necessary to 
reimburse the Transmission Owners for any amounts payable by them as sales, excise, “Btu,” 
carbon, value-added or similar taxes (other than taxes based upon or measured by net 
income) with respect to the amounts payable pursuant to the Tariff, refunds to be made to the 
customer from whom such taxes were collected under the service agreement, including a 
proportional amount of any interest PPL Electric receives from the taxing authority, in an 
amount proportional to the revenue that PPL Electric receives from PJM for transmission 
service provided to that customer. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8 - PPL 
Effective Date: 7/30/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2144-000 - Page 2 
 
4. The parties acknowledge that the rate for network integration transmission service to be 
incorporated into Attachment H-8 of the PJM Tariff, and the revenues derived from the 
application of that rate, do not include any amounts for the recovery of state gross receipts 
taxes, state sales taxes, and state use taxes.  To the extent that PPL Electric determines that it 
is, or becomes, liable for such taxes in connection with its provision of transmission and/or 
ancillary services to customers receiving such service(s) pursuant to the PJM Tariff, PJM, at 
the request of PPL Electric, shall include a separate provision in the service agreement 
applicable to such transmission and/or ancillary service(s) which will provide for the 
collection of amounts sufficient to recover the full amount of any such taxes from the 
customer to whose service such taxes apply.  Such amounts shall be in addition to any 
amounts collected through the Tariff rates set forth in Attachment H-8 to the PJM Tariff. 
If the customer disagrees with PPL Electric’s determination regarding the applicability of 
such taxes, the service agreement applicable to such customer shall be filed unexecuted.  
In such event, the customer may challenge the service agreement, including the 
application of such taxes to its service, pursuant to the Commission’s Regulations.  In any 
such challenge before the Commission, the only issue with regard to a challenge to the 
application of state gross receipts taxes, state sales taxes, or state use taxes shall be 
whether the Pennsylvania governmental authority responsible for collecting such gross 
receipts taxes, sales taxes, or use taxes takes the position that PPL Electric is liable for 
such taxes; provided that nothing in this settlement shall authorize the Commission to 
consider whether such position is authorized or consistent with Pennsylvania or federal 
law. 
If the determination made by the Pennsylvania governmental authority responsible for collecting 
such taxes that PPL Electric is liable for such taxes is reserved by the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania on review, PPL Electric shall properly terminate the provision in the service 
agreement that provides for the recovery of such taxes, and PPL Electric shall cause refunds to 
be made to the customers from whom such taxes were collected under the service agreement, 
including a proportional amount of any interest PPL Electric receives from the taxing authority, 
in an amount proportional to the revenue that PPL Electric receives from PJM for transmission 
service provided to that customer 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8A - PPL 
Effective Date: 9/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-2274-000 - Page 1 
