[ATTACHMENT H-20 - Part 1 of 2]

ATTACHMENT H-20 
 
Annual Transmission Rates – AEP Transmission Companies (AEPTCo)1 In the AEP Zone 
 
1. The annual transmission revenue requirement is equal to the results of the AEPTCo 
formula and its associated attachments shown in Attachment H-20B posted on the 
PJM Internet site (“Formula Rate”) which reflects the facilities within PJM and the 
associated revenue requirements of AEPTCo.  The rates determined pursuant to 
Attachment H-20B shall be implemented pursuant to the Formula Rate 
Implementation Protocols set forth in Attachment H-20A. 
 
2. Determination of monthly charges for AEP Zone: On a monthly basis, revenue credits 
shall be calculated based on the sum of AEPTCo’s share of revenues collected during the 
month from: (i) the PJM Border Rate under Schedule 7; (ii) Network Integration 
Transmission Service to Non-Zone Network Load under Attachment H-A; and (iii) Firm 
Point-To-Point Transmission Service where the Point of Delivery is internal to the AEP 
Zone. The sum of these revenue credits and potential charges will appear as an 
adjustment (reduction) to the gross monthly rate stated above on a Transmission 
Customer’s bill in that month for service under this schedule. 
 
3. The revenue requirement in (1) shall be effective until amended by AEPTCo or 
modified by the Commission. 
 
4. In addition to the rate set forth in section (1) above, the Network Customer 
purchasing Network Integration transmission Service shall pay for transmission 
congestion charges, and any other applicable charges, in accordance with the 
provisions of this Tariff, and any amounts necessary to reimburse the Transmission 
Owners for any amounts payable to them as sales, excise, “btu,” carbon, value-added, 
or similar taxes (other than taxes based upon or measured by net income) with respect 
to the amounts payable pursuant to the Tariff. 
 
 
 
1  AEPTCo subsidiaries in PJM include AEP Appalachian Transmission Company, Inc., 
AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company, Inc., AEP Kentucky Transmission 
Company, Inc, AEP Ohio Transmission Company, Inc., and AEP West Virginia 
Transmission Company, Inc.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT H-20 A 
 
THE AEP TRANSMISSION COMPANIES IN THE AEP ZONE 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
The formula rate template (“Template”), and these formula rate implementation 
protocols (“Protocols”) together comprise the filed rate (“Formula Rate”) of  AEP Appalachian 
Transmission Company Inc., AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company Inc., AEP 
Kentucky Transmission Company Inc., AEP Ohio Transmission Company Inc., and AEP West 
Virginia Transmission Company Inc. (collectively “AEPTCo”) for transmission revenue 
requirement determinations under the PJM Interconnection, LLC (“PJM”) Open Access 
Transmission Tariff (“PJM Tariff”).  AEPTCo shall follow the instructions specified in the 
Formula Rate to calculate annually its net annual transmission revenue requirement, as set forth 
at Attachment H-20B, page 1, line 4 of the Template (“Net Revenue Requirement”).  The Net 
Revenue Requirement shall be determined for January 1 to December 31 of a given calendar 
year (the “Rate Year”). The Formula Rate shall become effective for recovery of AEPTCo’s 
Net Revenue Requirement upon the effective date for incorporation into the PJM Tariff through 
a filing with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) under 
Section 205 of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”), 16 U.S.C. § 824d.         
Section 1. Annual Projection 
a. No later than October 31 preceding a Rate Year, and each subsequent Rate Year, 
AEPTCo shall determine its projected Net Revenue Requirement for the upcoming Rate 
Year in accordance with the Formula Rate (“Annual Projection”). The Annual Projection 
shall include the True-Up Adjustment described and defined in Section 2 below, if 
applicable.  AEPTCo shall cause an electronic version of the Annual Projection to be 
posted in both a Portable Document Format (“PDF”) and fully-functioning Excel file at a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 2 
publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS.  The date on which 
the posting occurs shall be that year’s “Annual Projection Publication Date.”   
b. The posting of the Annual Projection shall: 
(i) Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting 
documentation and workpapers for data that are used in the projected Net 
Revenue Requirement; 
(ii) Include all inputs in sufficient detail to identify the components of AEPTCo’s 
projected Net Revenue Requirement, explanations of the bases for the projections 
and input data, and sufficient detail and explanation to enable Interested Parties1 
to replicate the calculation of the projected Net Revenue Requirement;   
(iii) With respect to any Accounting Changes (as that term is defined in Section 3.e.iii)  
A.  Identify any Accounting Changes including:  
i. The initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy; 
ii. The initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific 
accounting direction;  
iii. Correction of errors and prior period adjustments that impact the 
projected Net Revenue Requirement calculation;  
iv. The implementation of new estimation methods or policies that 
change prior estimates; and  
v. Changes to income tax elections;  
 
1 As used in these Protocols, “Interested Parties” shall include but not be limited to: (i) any Eligible Customer 
under the PJM Tariff; (ii) any regulatory agency with rate jurisdiction over a public utility located within the PJM 
footprint; (iii) any consumer advocate authorized by state law to review and contest the rates for any such public 
utility; and (iv) any party with standing under FPA section 205 or section 206. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 3 
B. Identify items included in the projected Net Revenue Requirement at an 
amount other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments);  
C. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year 
and explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to 
the projected Net Revenue Requirement; and  
D. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to Section 1.b.iii.A - C of these 
Protocols, a narrative explanation of the individual impact of such changes 
on the projected Net Revenue Requirement. 
(iv) Include the following information related to affiliate cost allocation: 
A. A detailed description of the methodologies used to allocate and directly 
assign costs between AEP and its affiliates by service category or 
function, including any changes to such cost allocation methodologies 
from the prior year, and the reasons for those changes; and 
B. The magnitude of such costs that have been allocated or directly assigned 
between AEP and each affiliate by service category or function.  
 c.  If the date for making the posting of the Annual Projection should fall on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be made no later than the next 
business day.2  Within five (5) calendar days of the posting, PJM shall provide notice of 
such posting via the PJM Members Committee email subscription (“PJM Exploder List”).  
Interested Parties can subscribe to the PJM Exploder List on the PJM website.   
d. Together with the posting of the Annual Projection, AEPTCo shall cause to be posted on 
the PJM internet website and OASIS, and distributed to the PJM Exploder List, the time, 
 
2 For the purposes of these Protocols, if any deadline included in these Protocols should fall on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by FERC, then the deadline shall be extended to no later than the next business day. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 4 
date, location, and remote-access information for a stakeholder meeting with Interested 
Parties in order for AEPTCo to explain its Annual Projection and to provide Interested 
Parties an opportunity to seek information and clarifications regarding the Annual 
Projection (“Annual Projection Meeting”). The Annual Projection Meeting shall be held 
no less than twenty (20) business days and no more than thirty (30) business days after 
the posting of the Annual Projection. Notice of the Annual Projection Meeting shall be 
provided via the PJM Exploder List no less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the 
meeting.  AEPTCo will provide remote access to the Annual Projection Meeting in 
order to ease burdens (e.g. travel costs) to ensure all Interested Parties have the 
opportunity to participate.  
e. To the extent AEPTCo agrees to make changes in the Annual Projection for a given 
Rate Year, such revised Annual Projection shall be promptly posted at a publicly 
accessible location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS, and e-mailed to the PJM 
Exploder List.  Changes posted prior to November 30 preceding the Rate Year, or the 
next business day if November 30 is not a business day (or such later date as can be 
accommodated under PJM’s billing practices), shall be reflected in the Annual 
Projection for the Rate Year; changes posted after that date will be reflected, as 
appropriate, in the True-Up Adjustment for the Rate Year.   
f. The Annual Projection, including the True-Up Adjustment, for each Rate Year shall be 
subject to review, challenge, true-up, and refunds or surcharges with interest, to the 
extent and in the manner provided in these Protocols. 
Section 2.  True-Up Adjustment 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 5 
AEPTCo will calculate the amount of under- or over-collection of its actual Net Revenue 
Requirement during the preceding Rate Year (“True-Up Adjustment”) after the FERC Form No. 
1 data for that Rate Year has been filed with the Commission.  The True-Up Adjustment shall be 
the sum of the True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(a) and the 
Interest on the True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(b): 
 
a.  AEPTCo’s projected Net Revenue Requirement collected during the previous Rate Year 3 
will be compared to AEPTCo’s actual Net Revenue Requirement for the previous Rate 
Year calculated in accordance with  AEPTCo’s Formula Rate and based upon (i) 
AEPTCo’s FERC Form No. 1 for that same Rate Year, (ii) any FERC orders specifically 
applicable to AEPTCo’s calculation of its annual revenue requirement, (iii) the books and 
records of AEPTCo (which shall be maintained consistent with the FERC Uniform 
System of Accounts (“USofA”)), (iv) FERC accounting policies and practices applicable 
to the calculation of annual revenue requirements under formula rates, and (v) any 
aspects of the PJM Tariff Governing Documents that apply to the calculation of annual 
revenue requirements under individual transmission owner formula rates,4 to determine 
any over- or under-recovery (“True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery”).   
 
3 If the initial use of this Formula Rate covers only part of a calendar year, the initial projected annual Net Revenue 
Requirement will be divided by 12 to calculate the monthly projected cost of service to be collected each month it is 
effective that first year.  Similarly, the actual Net Revenue Requirement will be divided by 12 to calculate the actual 
monthly cost of service to be collected during those same months of that year.  Similar calculations of projected Net 
Revenue Requirement and actual Net Revenue Requirement will be made for the months prior to the effective date 
of this Formula Rate using the previous formula rate in effect during those months. The actual Net Revenue 
Requirements computed under each of the two formula rate periods that initial Rate Year will be added together to 
obtain the total actual Net Revenue Requirement. The first True-up Adjustment will compare this total actual Net 
Revenue Requirement to the Net Revenue Requirement collected under the two formulas for that initial Rate Year. 
4 PJM Tariff Governing Documents include the PJM Tariff, Bylaws, Criteria, and Membership Agreements. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 6 
b. Interest on any True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery shall be calculated for the 
thirty-six (36) months during which the over or under recovery in the revenue 
requirement remains outstanding (i.e., from January 1 of the Rate Year being trued-up  
through December 31 of the year in which the True-Up Adjustment Over/Under recovery 
is credtited or collected).   The interest rate to be applied to the True-Up Adjustment 
Over/Under Recovery amounts will be determined using the average monthly FERC 
Interest Rate (as determined pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a) for the twenty (20) months 
from the beginning of the Rate Year being trued-up through August 31 of the following 
year.  
Section 3.  Annual Update 
a. On or before May 25 following each Rate Year, AEPTCo shall calculate its actual Net 
Revenue Requirement and the True-Up Adjustment as described in Section 2 (“Annual 
Update”) for such Rate Year and, together with such other information described in this 
Section 3, shall cause such Annual Update to be posted, in both a PDF and fully-
functioning Excel format, at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website 
and OASIS.  Within five (5) calendar days of such posting, PJM shall provide notice of 
such posting via the PJM Exploder List.    
b. If the date for making the Annual Update posting should fall on a weekend or a holiday 
recognized by the FERC, then the posting shall be due on the next business day. 
c. The date on which the posting occurs shall be that year’s “Annual Update Publication 
Date.” 
d. Together with the posting of the Annual Update, AEPTCo shall cause to be posted on 
the PJM website and OASIS the time, date, location, and remote-access information for 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 7 
a stakeholder meeting with Interested Parties in order for AEPTCo to explain its Annual 
Update and to provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and 
clarifications regarding the Annual Update (“Annual Update Meeting”). Notice of the 
Annual Update Meeting shall be provided via the PJM Exploder List no less than seven 
(7) calendar days prior to the meeting.  The Annual Update Meeting shall be held no 
less than twenty (20) business days and no more than thirty (30) business days after the 
Annual Update Publication Date.  AEPTCo will provide remote access to the Annual 
Update Meeting in order to ease burdens (e.g. travel costs) to ensure all Interested 
Parties have the opportunity to participate.   
e. The Annual Update posting for the Rate Year: 
(i)  Shall provide, via the Formula Rate worksheets, sufficiently detailed supporting 
documentation for data (and all adjustments thereto or allocations thereof) used in 
the Formula Rate that are not stated in the FERC Form No. 1;5 
(ii) Shall provide sufficient detail and sufficient explanation to enable Interested 
Parties to replicate the calculation of the Annual Update results from the FERC 
Form No. 1 and verify that each input to the Template is consistent with the 
requirements of the Formula Rate; 
(iii) Shall identify:  
 
5 It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations described therein, that 
each input to the Formula Rate for purposes of determining the actual Net Revenue Requirement for a given Rate 
Year will be either taken directly from the FERC Form No. 1 or reconcilable to the FERC Form No. 1 by the 
application of clearly identified and supported information.  If the referenced form is superseded, the successor 
form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as necessary to provide equivalent information as that provided in the 
superseded form.  If the referenced form is discontinued, equivalent information as that provided in the discontinued 
form shall be utilized. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 8 
A. Any change in accounting that affects inputs to the Template or the 
resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate (“Accounting Change”), 
including: 
i. The initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy;  
ii. The initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific 
accounting direction; 
iii.  Correction of errors and prior period adjustments that impact the 
True-Up Adjustment calculation; 
iv. The implementation of new estimation methods or policies that 
change prior estimates; and 
v. Changes to income tax elections; 
B. Any items included in the Annual Update at an amount other than on a 
historic cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
C. Any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year and an 
explanation of the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on 
inputs to the Annual Update; 
D. For each item identified pursuant to Sections 3.e.iii.A – C of these 
Protocols, the individual impact (in narrative format) of such changes on 
the Annual Update.  
 (iv) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections 4, 5, and 6 of these Protocols.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 9 
(v) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in these Protocols with respect to the prudence of any costs and 
expenditures included for recovery in the Annual Update; provided, however, 
that nothing in these Protocols is intended to modify the Commission’s 
applicable precedent with respect to the burden of going forward or burden of 
proof under formula rates in such prudence challenges; and 
(vi) Shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be subject to challenge 
by any Interested Party seeking to modify the Formula Rate (i.e., any 
modifications to the Formula Rate will require, as applicable, an FPA section 
205 or section 206 filing or initiation of a section 206 investigation). 
f. The following Formula Rate inputs shall be stated values to be used in the Formula Rate 
until changed pursuant to an FPA section 205 or section 206 proceeding: (i) rate of 
return on common equity (“ROE”); (ii) the depreciation and/or amortization rates as set 
forth in Attachment 10 to the Formula Rate template, and (iii) Post-Employment  
benefits  other  than  Pension (“PBOP”)  charges pursuant to Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits 
Other Than Pensions.  
g. Example – Timelines for 2018 Annual Projection and 2019 Annual Update: 
 On or before October 31, 2017, AEPTCo will determine the projected Net Revenue 
Requirement for the 2018 Rate Year.  AEPTCo will post the Annual Projection for the 
2018 Rate Year in accordance with Section 1 above.  On or before May 25, 2019, 
AEPTCo will post its Annual Update, consisting of the actual Net Revenue Requirement 
and True-Up Adjustment for the 2018 Rate Year determined pursuant to Section 2 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 10 
above.  Such True-Up Adjustment will be reflected in the Annual Projection of the Net 
Revenue Requirement for the 2020 Rate Year posted on or before October 31, 2019.   
Section 4.  Annual Review Procedures 
Each Annual Update and Annual Projection shall be subject to the following review 
procedures (“Annual Review Procedures”): 
 a. Interested Parties shall have up to the later of two-hundred-ten (210) calendar days after 
the applicable Publication Date, or thirty (30) calendar days after the receipt of all 
responses to timely submitted information requests (unless such period is extended with 
the written consent of AEPTCo or by FERC order) (“Review Period”), to review the 
calculations and to notify AEPTCo in writing of any specific challenges to the Annual 
Update or Annual Projection (“Preliminary Challenge”), including challenges related to 
Accounting Changes.  An Interested Party submitting a Preliminary Challenge must 
specify the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations, calculations, or other 
information to which it objects, and provide an appropriate explanation and documents 
to support its challenge.  AEPTCo shall cause to be posted all Preliminary Challenges at 
a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS, and a link to the 
website will be e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List. 
b.  In the event of a Preliminary Challenge, AEPTCo will appoint a senior representative to 
work with the Interested Party (or its representatives) toward a resolution of the dispute.   
c. AEPTCo shall respond in writing to a Preliminary Challenge within twenty (20) 
business days of receipt, and its response shall notify the challenging party of the extent 
to which AEPTCo agrees or disagrees with the challenge.  If AEPTCo disagrees with 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 11 
the Preliminary Challenge, it will provide the Interested Party with an explanation 
supporting the challenged inputs, explanations, allocations, calculations, or other 
information.  AEPTCo shall promptly cause to be posted its responses to all Preliminary 
Challenges at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS, and 
a link to the website will be e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, Preliminary Challenges and responses to Preliminary Challenges that include 
material deemed by AEPTCo to be confidential information will not be publicly posted 
but will be made available to requesting parties pursuant to a confidentiality agreement 
to be executed by AEPTCo and the requesting party.   
d. AEPTCo shall respond to all Preliminary Challenges submitted during the Review 
Period by no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the end of the Review Period.  
e. Interested Parties shall have up to one-hundred-fifty (150) calendar days after each 
annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of 
AEPTCo or by FERC order) to serve reasonable information requests on AEPTCo 
(“Discovery Period”).   
f.  Information requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine: (i) the extent, 
effect, or impact of an Accounting Change; (ii) whether the  Annual Update or Annual 
Projection fails to include data properly recorded in accordance with the Protocols; (iii) 
the proper application of the Template and procedures in the Protocols; (iv) the accuracy 
of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the charges shown in the Annual 
Update or Annual Projection; (v) the prudence of the actual costs and expenditures, 
including procurement methods and cost control methodologies; (vi) the effect of any 
change to the underlying USofA or FERC Form No. 1; and (vii) any other information 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 12 
that may reasonably have substantive effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to 
the Formula Rate. The information requests shall not otherwise be directed to 
ascertaining whether the Formula Rate is just and reasonable. Information requests shall 
not solicit information concerning costs or allocations where the costs or allocation 
methods have been determined to be appropriate by FERC in the context of prior 
AEPTCo Annual Updates, except that such information requests shall be permitted if 
they (i) seek to determine if there has been a change in circumstances, (ii) are in 
connection with corrections pursuant to Section 6 of these Protocols, or (iii) relate to 
costs or allocations that have not previously been challenged and adjudicated by FERC.   
g. AEPTCo shall make a good faith effort to respond to reasonable information requests 
pertaining to the Annual Update or Annual Projection within fifteen (15) business days of 
receipt of such requests.  AEPTCo shall respond to all reasonable information requests no 
later than thirty (30) calendar days after the end of the Discovery Period. AEPTCo will 
cause to be posted on the PJM website and OASIS all information requests from 
Interested Parties and AEPTCo’s response(s) to such requests, and a link to the website 
will be e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, information 
and document requests and responses to information and document requests that include 
material deemed by AEPTCo to be confidential information will not be publicly posted 
but will be made available to requesting parties pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to 
be executed by AEPTCo and the requesting party. Voluminous materials will be made 
available at a physical AEP site. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 13 
h.  AEPTCo shall not claim that responses to information and document requests provided 
pursuant to these Protocols are subject to any settlement privilege in any subsequent 
FERC proceeding addressing AEPTCo’s Annual Update or Annual Projection. 
i. To the extent AEPTCo and any Interested Party(ies) are unable to resolve disputes 
related to information requests submitted in accordance with these Annual Review 
Procedures, AEPTCo or the Interested Party may petition the FERC to appoint an 
Administrative Law Judge as a discovery master to resolve the discovery dispute(s) in 
accordance with these Protocols and consistent with the FERC’s discovery rules. 
j. Preliminary Challenges or Formal Challenges (as described in Sections 4 and 5) related 
to Accounting Changes shall be treated in the same manner under these Protocols as 
other challenges to the Annual Update or Annual Projection.  Failure to make a 
Preliminary Challenge with respect to an Accounting Change in an Annual Update or 
Annual Projection shall not act as a bar with respect to a Formal Challenge with respect 
to that Annual Update or Annual Projection provided that the Interested Party submitted 
a Preliminary Challenge with respect to one or more other issues. Nor shall such failure 
bar a subsequent Preliminary Challenge related to a subsequent Annual Update or 
Annual Projection to the extent such Accounting Change affects the subsequent Annual 
Update or Annual Projection. 
k. If a change made by AEPTCo to its accounting policies, practices, or procedures, or the 
application of the Formula Rate, is found by the FERC to be unjust, unreasonable, or 
unduly discriminatory or preferential, then the calculation of the charges to be assessed 
during the Rate Year then under review, and the charges to be assessed during any 
subsequent Rate Years, including any True-up Adjustments, shall not include such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 14 
change, but shall include any remedy that may be prescribed by FERC in the exercise of 
its discretion as of the effective date of such remedy, to ensure that the Formula Rate 
continues to operate in a manner that is just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory 
or preferential.  
 Section 5. Resolution of Challenges 
 a. Interested Parties shall have up to two –hundred-seventy (270) days following the 
applicable Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of 
AEPTCo or by FERC order), to file a challenge with the FERC (“Formal Challenge”). 
Such Formal Challenge shall be submitted in the same docket as the AEPTCo 
informational filing and shall be served on AEPTCo by electronic service on the date of 
such filing in accordance with Section 385.2010(f)(3) of the Commission’s regulations.  
Subject to any applicable confidentiality and Critical Energy Infrastructure Information 
restrictions, all information and correspondence produced by AEPTCo pursuant to these 
Protocols may be included in any Formal Challenge or other FERC proceeding relating 
to the Formula Rate. 
b. Formal Challenges are to be filed pursuant to these Protocols, rather than under rule 
206, and shall: 
(i) Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the Formula 
Rate Template or Protocols;  
(ii)   Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed rate Template or Protocols; 
(iii)   Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues presented by the 
action or inaction as such relate to or affect the party filing the Formal 
Challenge, including 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 15 
A.  The extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
B. Whether the Annual Update or Annual Projection fails to include data 
properly recorded in accordance with these Protocols;  
C. The proper application of the Template and procedures in these 
Protocols;  
D. The accuracy of the data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
charges shown in the Annual Update or Annual Projection; 
E. The prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
F. The effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts 
or the FERC Form No. 1; or  
G. Any other information that may reasonably have substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the Template.  
(iv) Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if any) 
created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of the action or 
inaction; 
(v)  State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing Commission 
proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the filing party is a 
party, and if so, provide an explanation why timely resolution cannot be 
achieved in that forum; 
(vi) State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for stay or 
extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 16 
(vii) Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in 
possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, including, but not 
limited to, contracts and affidavits; and 
(viii) State whether the filing party utilized the Preliminary Challenge procedures 
described in these Protocols to dispute the action or inaction raised by the 
Formal Challenge, and, if not, describe why not. 
c. Preliminary and Formal Challenges shall be limited to issues that may be necessary to 
determine: (i) the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; (ii) whether the Annual 
Update or Annual Projection fails to include  data properly recorded in accordance with 
these Protocols; (iii) the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these 
Protocols; (iv) the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
calculations shown in the Annual Update and Annual Projection; (v) the prudence of 
actual costs and expenditures; (vi) the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform 
System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1; or (vii) any other information that may 
reasonably have substantive effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the 
formula. 
d.  Failure to raise an issue in a Preliminary Challenge shall not bar an Interested Party 
from raising that issue in a Formal Challenge, provided the Interested Party submitted a 
Preliminary Challenge during the Review Period with respect to one or more other 
issues. Failure to pursue an issue through a Preliminary Challenge or to lodge a Formal 
Challenge regarding any issue as to a given Annual Update shall bar pursuit of such 
issue with respect to that Annual Update, but shall not bar pursuit of such issue or the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 17 
lodging of a Formal Challenge as to such issue as it relates to a subsequent Annual 
Update. 
e. Any response by AEPTCo to a Formal Challenge must be submitted to the FERC within 
thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the filing of the Formal Challenge, and shall be 
served on the filing party(ies) and the PJM Exploder List on the date of such filing.  
f. In any Formal Challenge proceeding concerning an Annual Update (including 
corrections), Annual Projection, or Accounting Change(s), AEPTCo shall demonstrate 
the justness and reasonableness of the rate resulting from its application of the Formula 
Rate by demonstrating that it has correctly applied the terms of the Formula Rate 
consistent with these Protocols and that it followed the applicable requirements and 
procedures in applying the Formula Rate. Nothing herein is intended to alter the burdens 
applied by FERC with respect to prudence challenges. 
g. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any 
way the right of AEPTCo to file unilaterally, pursuant to section 205 of the FPA and the 
regulations thereunder, an application seeking changes to the Formula Rate or to any of 
the stated value inputs requiring a section 205 filing under these Protocols (including, 
but not limited to, ROE and depreciation and amortization rates), or the right of any 
other party or the Commission to seek such changes pursuant to section 206 of the FPA 
and the regulations thereunder.  
h. AEPTCo may, at its discretion and at a time of its choosing, make a limited filing 
pursuant to section 205 to modify stated values in the Formula Rate (i) for amortization 
and depreciation rates, (ii) to correct obvious errors or omissions in the Formula Rate 
such as would result from changes to the FERC Form No. 1, or (iii) PBOP charges 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 1/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-406-001 - Page 18 
pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers’ 
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions.  The sole issue in any 
such limited section 205 proceeding shall be whether such proposed change(s) is just 
and reasonable, and it shall not address other aspects of the Formula Rate or impose 
upon AEPTCo any burden with respect to such other aspects of the Formula Rate.     
Section 6. Changes to Annual Updates  
  If AEPTCo determines or concedes that corrections to the Annual Update are 
required, whether under Sections 4 or 5 of these Protocols, including but not limited to 
those requiring corrections to its FERC Form No. 1, or input data used for a Rate Year that 
would have affected the Annual Update for that Rate Year, such corrections shall be 
reflected as adjustments in the Annual Update for the next Rate Year, with interest 
calculated in accordance with the FERC Interest Rate (as determined pursuant to 18 C.F.R. 
§ 35.19a).  This reconciliation mechanism shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year 
adjustments. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 1 
Appendix A to Attachment H-20A 
 
American Electric Power Service Corporation 
Docket No. ER10-355 
 
Transmission Formula Rate Settlement 
For  
AEP Appalachian Transmission Company Inc., AEP Indiana Michigan Transmission Company Inc., AEP 
Kentucky Transmission Company Inc., AEP Ohio Transmission Company Inc., and AEP West Virginia 
Transmission Company Inc. 
  
(collectively “AEP” or “the AEP East Transmission Companies”) 
 
 
Cost of Service and Formula Rate Settlement Principles 
 
 
The following Cost of Service and Formula Rate Settlement Principles are a part of the 
Settlement Agreement being filed _______ , 2010 in Docket No. ER10-355 (“the Settlement”): 
 
 
I. Transmission Formula Rate Design. 
A. Applicability of Wholesale Ratemaking Practices. 
1. Only those costs that are recoverable pursuant to FERC accounting and/or 
ratemaking practices may be recovered by the AEP East Transmission 
Companies through its FERC transmission formula rate. 
2. Adjustments to the AEP cost of service formula rate templates - AEP shall 
take steps to have PJM include in the rate template used to calculate 
charges to transmission customers all of the adjustments, modifications, 
and corrections identified in the new formula rate templates included with 
this Statement of Settlement Principles.  
3. Costs of transmission studies 
a. All costs of transmission studies (e.g., studies of requested new or 
modified delivery or interconnection points, System Impact 
Studies and Facilities Studies) associated with service to affiliated 
(e.g., AEP East Transmission Companies) and non-affiliated 
customers shall be allocated and charged to customers on a 
comparable and consistent basis.  
b. The costs of such studies shall be accounted for in one of the 
following ways: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 2 
i. The study costs are not included in the formula rate, 
expressly or otherwise; or  
ii. If the costs are included in the formula rate but also 
are directly assigned to the entity requesting the 
study, then the formula rate also will include a 
revenue credit equal to the amount of study costs 
that are directly assignable to the requesting entity.  
Such revenue credit shall be reflected in the formula 
rate regardless of the specific accounting applied to 
the costs and revenues.  
iii. Study costs that are not directly assigned to the 
requesting entity may be treated as a system-wide 
cost in applying the formula rate, but only if that 
treatment is applied to all such study costs incurred 
for any requesting entity. 
c. Transmission service base rate charges under the formula shall be 
calculated in a manner that allocates the costs of transmission 
studies to, and recovers those costs from, transmission customers 
(including the AEP East Operating Companies) on a comparable 
basis, without regard to whether the costs of those studies are 
directly assigned or rolled-in, and without regard to whether any 
particular studies are performed for affiliated or non-affiliated 
customers. 
   
B. Rate Base 
1. The transmission Rate Base used in the annual update shall be based upon 
the end-of-year net transmission plant balance from the prior calendar year 
FERC Form 1 (“FF1”).  The true-up of the formula rate, however, shall 
utilize a Transmission Rate Base that incorporates the arithmetic average 
of the most recent actual values for beginning-of-year and end-of-year net 
transmission plant (that is, the average of beginning and end of calendar 
year balances for plant in service and accumulated depreciation). 
a. The revenue requirements billed each July and running through 
June of the next year will be based on a test-year-end rate base 
style annual transmission revenue requirement (“ATRR”) 
calculation.  The initial revenue requirements will be billed July 1, 
2010, through June 30, 2011, and will be based on the 2009 
expenses and year-end rate base plus projected 2010 calendar 
transmission plant in service (TPIS) additions.  The following year 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 3 
the projected revenue requirements will be based on the 2010 
expenses and year-end TPIS balances obtained from the 2010 FF1 
plus projected 2011 calendar year TPIS additions.   
b. In 2011, the estimated ATRR that was effective during 2010 will 
be reconciled (“trued-up”) with an ATRR that is calculated based 
on actual 2010 calendar year expenses and rate base reflecting the 
arithmetic average of the beginning-of-year and end-of-year 
balances for TPIS and accumulated depreciation.  The actual 2010 
ATRR (“true-up”) to be used for such reconciliation will be posted 
or otherwise provided to customers in May 2011 at the same time 
that the projected ATRR to be used for billing purposes during the 
second half of 2011 (and the first half of 2012) is posted or 
otherwise provided to customers.   
c. For the true-up of prior year charges, AEP East Transmission 
Companies will calculate the difference between the estimated 
ATRR for the prior calendar year that was used for billing 
purposes and the actual ATRR for that prior calendar year, 
calculated as described in paragraph B.1.b. above.  The difference 
between the two values (plus interest at the applicable FERC 
refund interest rates) shall be reflected as an addition to or offset 
against billed charges for transmission service July 1st of the 
current year through June 30 of the following year. The interest 
rate will be calculated as per section 35.19a of the Commission’s 
regulations.  
d. The sequence outlined in paragraphs B.1.a, B.1.b and B.1.c above 
will be repeated each year. 
2. Cash working capital for each AEP East Transmission Company will be 
calculated as 1/8 of transmission-related O&M expense not including any 
portion of A&G expense allocated to transmission.   
3. AEP will provide as a part of its informational filing each May detail 
regarding ADIT balances for the historical year that is no less detailed, 
and selectively more detailed as described in this section, than what is 
included in FERC Standard Filing Requirements for Period I Statement 
AF (Accts. 281, 282, and 283) and Statement AG (Acct. 190).    In 
addition, AEP’s information on ADIT will distinguish between utility and 
non-utility ADIT in order to ensure compliance with Section I.D.2.c.i., 
below. 
4. AEP will be permitted to include in Rate Base in the formula rate such 
portion of AEP’s FAS 87 cash investment in Pre-Paid Pension cost 
recorded in FERC Account 165 as may be incurred for AEP System 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 4 
employees providing service to the AEP Transmission Companies.  If 
AEP elects to include such costs in Rate Base, it will use a labor expense 
allocation factor to allocate the total company amount to the transmission 
cost of service (“TCOS”).  
C. Expenses 
1. The formula rate shall allocate property tax expense based on the 
methodology of Worksheet Sheet H using the as-filed methodology. 
2. The formula rate shall reflect the applicable state and federal statutory tax 
rates in effect during the period the calculated estimated unit charges are 
applicable. If statutory tax rates change during such period, the effective 
tax rates used in the formula shall be weighted by the number of days the 
pre-change rate and the post-change rate each is in effect (e.g., if a 40% 
rate is in effect nine months and a 32% rate is in effect 3 months, the 
weighted rate for the 12-month period would be 38%, which reflects 40% 
x 0.75 + 32% x 0.25 = 38%).  
3. The formula shall include only expenses that are directly related to or 
properly allocable to transmission service.  
4. Expenses recorded in FERC Accounts 928 (Regulatory Commission 
Expense), 930.1 (Safety Related Advertising) and 930.2 (Miscellaneous 
General Expenses) that are not directly related to or properly allocable to 
transmission service will be removed from the TCOS.  If AEP includes 
any expenses booked to these accounts in future ATRR updates, AEP 
must provide supporting information demonstrating that the underlying 
activities are directly related to providing transmission service.  
5. The AEP Transmission Companies will record depreciation expense using 
composites of the depreciation rates attached as Appendix A.1.2, which 
rates will not be changed absent an Order of the Commission approving 
such change in a Section 205 or 206 filing at FERC to seek a change in 
depreciation rates.   
6. PBOP Expense  
i. Post employment benefit expenses other than pensions (PBOP) 
included in each update of the AEP Transmission Companies’ 
formula rate will be fixed based on a rate reflecting the ratio of the 
AEP System-wide PBOP expense divided by the AEP System-
wide total employee direct labor expense (PBOP Rate).  The initial 
PBOP Rate shall be $0.094 per dollar cost of each AEP 
Transmission Company’s direct labor expense. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 5 
ii. The calculation of PBOP expense includable in each Annual 
Update of the formula rate shall be made pursuant to Worksheet O, 
which is included in Attachment F to the Settlement Agreement, 
and which will be included in the formula rate.  Using Worksheet 
O, each AEP Transmission Company will, as part of each Annual 
Update, compare the allowable PBOP expense, based on the PBOP 
Rate, to its actual PBOP expense in the prior calendar year in order 
to determine the adjustment required to increase or decrease the 
actual PBOP expense to the allowable amount.  
  
iii. As part of the annual update process, AEP will provide to 
transmission customers, and include in its informational filing, an 
independently prepared actuarial report (“Annual Actuarial 
Report”) that includes a ten (10) year forecast of PBOP expenses 
when that report becomes available.  The Settling Parties anticipate 
that the Annual Actuarial Report normally will be received by the 
time the annual update is posted or otherwise provided to 
customers each year.  
 
iv.   During the annual update process conducted in 2014, and every 
four years thereafter, Worksheet O will be used to determine 
whether, and if so by what amount, the PBOP allowance rate 
($PBOP per $ Direct O&M Labor) should be adjusted going 
forward for the next four years (PBOP Rate Review).  If the 
Annual Actuarial Report issued during the year of any PBOP Rate 
Review projects PBOP costs during the next four years that, when 
allocated to the AEP Transmission Companies based on their 
projected direct labor expenses over that same projected four-year 
period, absent a change in the PBOP Rate, will likely cause the 
AEP East Transmission Companies to over or under collect their 
cumulative PBOP expenses by more than 20% of the projected 
next four year's total PBOP expense, taking into account the net 
over or under collection of such expenses during the previous four 
years, the PBOP Rate shall be adjusted.  In order to determine 
whether continued use of the then approved PBOP Rate is likely to 
result in the AEP Companies' incurrence of a cumulative 
allowance of PBOP costs under the formula rate will result in a 
cumulative over or under-recovery of actual PBOP expenses 
exceeding 20% over the subsequent four year period, Worksheet O 
will be used to determine the following PBOB expense metrics: 
 
(a) the level of cumulative over or under collections of PBOP 
expense during the time since the PBOP allowance rate was 
last set, including carrying costs based on the weighted 
average cost of capital ("WACC") each year from the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 6 
Formula rate True-Up transmission cost-of-service 
("TCOS") analyses; 
(b)  the cumulative net present value ("CNPV") of projected 
PBOP costs during the next four years, as estimated by the 
then current Actuarial Report, assuming a discount rate 
equal to the True-Up TCOS WACC for the immediately 
prior calendar year ("Prior Year WACC"); and 
(c)  the CNPV of continued collections over the next four years 
based on the projected AEP Transmission Companies’ 
direct labor expenses and the then effective PBOP 
allowance rate, assuming a discount rate equal to the Prior 
Year WACC. 
 
If the absolute value of (a) + (b) - (c) exceeds 20% of (b), 
then the PBOP allowance rate used in the formula rate 
calculation shall be changed to the value that will cause the 
projected result of  
(a) + (b) - (c) to equal zero.  If the projected over or under 
collection during the next four years, (a) + (b) - (c), is less 
than 20% of (b), then the PBOP Rate will continue in effect 
for the next four years at the then effective rate. 
 
 v. If it is determined through the foregoing procedure that the AEP 
Companies’ cumulative PBOP Rate will over-recover or under-
recover actual PBOP expenses by more than 20% over the 
subsequent four-year period, AEP shall make a filing under FPA § 
205 to change the PBOP Rate stated in the formula rate.  No other 
changes to the formula rate may be included in that filing.  Neither 
AEP nor any Settling Party may raise in connection with such 
filing any issue affecting the formula rate other than the level of 
allowable PBOP Rate.  
 
vi. The foregoing procedure for required updating of the formula 
rate’s stated PBOP Rate shall not affect either: (i) AEP’s right to 
make filings under FPA § 205 to address aspects of the formula 
rate other than PBOP expense, or (ii) customers’ rights to make 
filings under FPA § 206 to address aspects of the formula rate 
other than the PBOP expense.   
  
7. Formation Costs 
 
a. One half of the AEP Transmission Companies’ Formation costs 
incurred before June 30, 2010 will be included in the formula rate, 
with such amount to be allocated equally among the AEP 
Transmission Companies and amortized over four years.  There 
will be no carrying charges on the unamortized balance of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 7 
recoverable Formation costs.  Formation costs incurred after June 
30, 2010 shall not be included in the transmission formula rates of 
the AEP Transmission Companies (or the AEP Operating 
Companies) and shall not be otherwise recoverable in FERC-
regulated rates.  For purposes of such rate exclusion, post-June 30, 
2010 formation costs include, but are not limited to, all costs 
associated with obtaining any necessary federal, state or local 
approvals for formation/operation of the AEP Transmission 
Companies, all costs associated with establishment of the AEP 
Transmission Companies and the evaluation of how to accomplish 
same, and any other category of cost that AEP treated as a 
formation cost for purposes of its request to recover pre-June 30, 
2010 formation costs.  In its Annual Update filings, AEP 
Transmission Companies shall provide information sufficient to 
permit verification that such formation costs have been excluded 
from the formula rates.  AEP reserves the right to seek recovery of 
post-June 30, 2010 formation costs associated with obtaining 
necessary state or local approvals (regarding state-related costs) 
from the applicable state regulatory commission. 
 
D. Capital Structure, Cost of Capital and Return on Equity  
1. Return on Equity 
a. The Settlement shall establish on a non-precedential basis a base 
return on common equity (“Base ROE”) used in the OATT 
transmission formula rates applicable to the AEP East zone of 
10.99%, plus a 50 basis point adder for continued RTO 
participation (for a total of 11.49% ROE).  This ROE shall remain 
in effect for a period of at least 36 months. 
b. The Settlement shall not establish a lower or upper end of the zone 
of reasonableness, but for a period of 36 months from the effective 
date of the formula rate, AEP will limit any request for an 
incentive ROE pursuant to Order No. 679 and Order No. 679-A to 
not more than the total ROE plus 125 basis points, (i.e., 12.74% 
total incentive ROE).  Such incentive ROE must be within the 
then-applicable zone of reasonableness as determined in a Section 
205 or 206 proceeding. Settling Parties reserve the right to protest 
any request by AEP for incentive rates including any request for an 
incentive ROE. 
2. Capital Structure / Cost of Capital: 
a. In the annual true-up calculations, AEP shall use the arithmetic 
average of the beginning-of-year and end-of-year balances of long-

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 8 
term debt, common and preferred equity, and shall use actual 
calendar year long term debt interest expenses, preferred 
dividends, and approved ROE. The long term debt balances and 
long term debt cost rate shall not include any amounts related to 
hedging activity. 
b. AEP shall use the most recent available FF1 actual end-of-year 
balances of outstanding long term debt (less the balance of any 
hedges), preferred equity, and common equity, in the projected 
ATRR used for billing purposes. The estimated cost rate for long 
term debt for the Projected Rate Year shall reflect the prior 
calendar year actual cost of long term debt (including periodic 
expenses such as remarketing and letter of credit fees, and related 
amortizations, as applicable, of issuance/reacquisition cost and 
discount or premium amortizations) for debt outstanding during the 
full year and the annualized cost of any issuances that occur after 
January 1 of the prior calendar year for a full twelve months 
coupon interest expense. However, any amortization of gains or 
losses on interest rate derivative hedging shall be excluded from 
long-term-debt cost annual and annualized expenses.  AEP will 
reflect the calculation of its debt cost in Worksheets L and M.  
c. AEP is not restricted from hedging at its discretion, and all interest 
rate hedge gains and losses will be excluded from the formula rate 
for both the Projected and True-Up rates.  
 
d. AEP East Transmission Companies will establish LTD and Equity 
investments in the AEP East Transmission Companies as soon as is 
practicable (actual capital structure and long term debt costs and 
preferred equity costs).  Until that time, the AEP East 
Transmission Companies will use the actual consolidated 
(weighted composite) capital structure and LTD cost rate of the 
AEP Operating Companies in PJM {The AEP Operating 
Companies in PJM are: Appalachian Power Company, Indiana 
Michigan Power Company, Kentucky Power Company, Kingsport 
Power Company, Ohio Power Company, and Wheeling Power 
Company} subject to a 50% equity ratio cap, as further explained 
below.  Appendix A-1.1 to this Attachment A-1 describes the 
manner in which the weighted average composite capital structure 
and cost of long term debt and preferred equity costs of the AEP 
East Operating Companies in PJM shall be calculated. 
e. In transitioning from the use of the proxy composite capital cost of 
the East Operating Companies in PJM to an actual capital 
structure, long term debt cost and preferred equity cost, a 
transitioning East Transmission Company’s actual capital structure 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 9 
and cost rates will be implemented for the Projected TCOS in the 
first formula rate Annual Update after the issuance of long-term 
debt or allocation of debt financing from an associated company 
establishing the transitioning East Company’s actual capital 
structure and cost of debt.  The True-Up TCOS in that Annual 
Update will continue to be based on the East Operating 
Companies’ composite capital structure and LTD cost, and 
preferred equity costs.     
f. The first long term debt in the actual capital structure of an AEP 
Transmission Company is expected to be an allocation of proceeds 
from a debt issuance of AEP Transmission Company LLC or AEP 
Transmission Holding Company LLC (refer to page 7 of Exhibit 
AEP 100 for the AEPTCo Corporate Structure).  The AEP 
Transmission Companies {The AEP Transmission Companies 
include the AEP East Transmission Companies and AEP 
Southwestern Transmission Company Inc., and AEP Oklahoma 
Transmission Co., Inc.} would draw debt financing from this 
issuance, as well as equity infusions from AEP Transmission 
Company LLC or AEP Transmission Holding Company LLC, 
based on their individual expenditure levels to establish their actual 
capital structure.  The interest rate of this debt financing, along 
with any associated issuance costs incurred (not to include any 
costs related to any hedging activities), would define the initial 
cost of debt for the affected AEP Transmission Companies. This 
initial debt financing and all subsequent allocations of associated 
company (AEP Transmission Company LLC or AEP Transmission 
Holding Company LLC or a higher affiliate in AEP, Inc.) long 
term debt shall be recorded in Account 430 Advances from 
Associated Companies in the FERC Form No. 1 reports of the 
affected AEP Transmission Companies.  However, long term debt 
issuances and equity of the AEP Operating Companies shall not be 
used to finance debt or equity in the actual capital structure of the 
AEP Transmission Companies. The debt cost rate of long term 
debt issuances allocated from associated companies to the AEP 
Transmission Companies shall be at cost. 
g. In the event there is a construction draw down loan, the Companies 
will adopt the yield to maturity (YTM) approach filed in the PATH 
Settlement Agreement Docket No. ER08-386-000 in determining 
the cost of debt for such draw down loan[s], and illustrated in 
Attachment A.1.3. There is an annual and final (at end of loan) 
true-up of YTM, consistent with actual debt cost experience. 
Workpapers showing the calculation of the yield to maturity cost 
and true-up shall be included in the Annual Update(s) in which 
such charges are proposed to be included in the Projected rate. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 10 
h. When an individual East Transmission Company has an actual 
capital structure, which is first achieved when the Transmission 
Company issues its own first long term debt issuance in its own 
name, or the individual Transmission Company has debt financing 
specifically allocated from an issuance by AEP Transmission 
Company LLC or AEP Transmission Holding Company LLC or a 
higher AEP corporate entity as described in (f) above, the actual 
long term debt cost and capital structure of that individual East 
Transmission Company shall be used in the Projected and True Up 
formula rates for that individual company, subject to a 50% Equity 
Ratio cap described below and subject to transition year treatment 
as described in (e) of this section.  The True-up and Projected 
ATRR of the remaining East Transmission Companies which have 
not yet issued their own long term debt, or received a specific 
allocation of debt financing by an associated company for the 
purpose of rate making, shall continue to be based on the 
consolidated (composite) actual weighted average capital structure, 
long term debt cost, and preferred equity cost of all the East 
Operating Companies in PJM (including the costs of the operating 
company geographically associated with the individual 
transmission company which has established an actual capital 
structure and long-term debt cost). 
i. In applying the formula rate, the balance amounts of common 
equity, used in determining the weighted average cost of capital to 
be used for the AEP East Transmission Companies, shall not 
exceed 50% percent of the total projected and true-up 
capitalization (“Equity Cap”), regardless of the actual amounts of 
common equity capital outstanding.  The Equity Cap applies to 
both the implementation of the consolidated East Operating 
Company’s actual capital structure and to the implementation of an 
individual East Transmission Company actual capital structure.  
The Equity Cap can be removed or adjusted only after June 30, 
2013 and only through a filing under section 205 or 206 of the 
Federal Power Act. When applied to the consolidated East 
Operating Companies’ actual capital structure, the individual 
Operating Company equity caps pursuant to the East Operating 
Companies’ settlement in Docket ER08-1329 shall be applied first 
before the 50% Equity Cap pursuant to the instant settlement is 
applied to the weighted composite East Operating Companies’ 
capital structure.  The composite weighted average long term debt 
cost rate of the East Operating Companies, exclusive of hedging 
costs and Indiana-Michigan Operating Company’s spent nuclear 
fuel disposal funding costs, shall apply. 
j. If the percentage of common equity in the East Operating 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 11 
Companies’ composite (consolidated) capitalization or any AEP 
East Transmission Company’s actual capitalization exceeds the 
applicable Equity Cap, the amount of common equity exceeding 
the Equity Cap shall be assigned the same cost rate as long-term 
debt in the formula rate cost of capital calculations. 
E. Revenue Credits-- The following principles shall be stated in the formula rate: 
1. If the AEP East Transmission Companies have any directly assigned 
transmission facilities, the revenue credits in the AEP East formula rate 
shall include all revenues associated with those directly assigned 
transmission facilities, irrespective of whether the loads of the customer 
are included in the formula rate divisor; provided, however, such addition 
to revenue credits shall not be reflected if the costs of such directly 
assigned transmission facilities are not included in the transmission plant 
balances on which the formula rate ATRR is based.   
2. All transmission services revenues not credited to customers in monthly 
PJM billings shall be included in the formula rate calculation as reductions 
to the ATRR.  Such amounts shall include transmission revenues received 
from PJM or other PJM Transmission Owners where the associated loads 
are not in the AEP Zone divisor, unless the revenues are attributable to 
AEP’s base transmission rate charges for Network Integration 
Transmission Service (“Network Service”) or long-term firm Point-to-
Point Transmission Service.  
F. Allocators. 
1. The allocations of Administrative & General (A&G) expenses identified 
by three-digit FERC account in the Formula Rate Template and 
Worksheet F, Supporting Allocation of Specific O&M or A&G Expenses, 
may not be changed except through a filing under FPA § 205 or 206. If 
AEP wishes to reflect new O&M or A&G expenses or accounts in future 
updates, it must include in such § 205 filing: (i) a specification of the basis 
on which it proposes to allocate a portion of such costs as is properly 
assignable to wholesale transmission service, and (ii) documentation 
sufficient to demonstrate the reasonableness of its proposed allocation 
factor consistent with applicable Commission precedent.  
2. No Account 565 costs other than inter-company charges that net out (such 
as lease arrangements and transmission equalization payments/receipts 
between AEP companies) will be included in the TCOS, unless first 
approved by FERC following a separate FPA §  205 filing by AEP. 
3. AEP will include in the Annual Update to the formula rate, notification of 
any change in the use of established allocation factors (change from one 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 12 
factor to another established allocation factor for a cost applicable to AEP 
Transmission Companies). Any new allocation factor (not previously 
approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission or the FERC) will 
be filed with the FERC for approval in a Section 205 proceeding before 
being implemented, and AEP will provide notification in the Annual 
Update of the implementation of a newly created allocation factor that 
may affect costs allocated to the AEP Transmission Companies.  In 
addition, AEP shall include notification in the Annual Updates of the 
establishment of any new regulated and un-regulated income-producing 
affiliates or operating divisions with new income-producing operations.  
II. Application of Interest Rate Calculation in True-Up  
AEP shall include an interest rate worksheet as Attachment C to the Settlement 
Agreement specifying its procedure for applying interest to true-up over or under recoveries.  
III. Formula Implementation Protocols 
The Formula Rate Implementation Protocols shall be adopted as set forth in Attachment A-2. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 13 
 Appendix A-1.1  
AEP East Consolidated Utility Capital Structure 
Consolidation of Operating Companies' Capital Structure @ 12-31-2009 
Worksheet Q Page 1 
Line  
Appalachian 
Power 
Company 
Indiana 
Michigan 
Power 
Company 
Kentucky 
Power 
Company 
Kingsport 
Power 
Company 
Ohio Power 
Company 
Wheeling 
Power 
Company 
AEP East 
Operating 
Companies' 
Consolidated 
Capital Structure 
Development of Long Term Debt Balances 
at Year End        
1 Bonds (112.18.c&d)                        -                          -                          -                        -                      -                      -                               -    
2 Less: Reacquired Bonds (112.19.c&d) 
          
17,500,000                        -                          -                        -       303,000,000                    -    
            
320,500,000  
3 
LT Advances from Assoc. Companies  
(112.20.c&d) 
        
100,000,000  
         
25,000,000          20,000,000  
       
20,000,000     200,000,000  
     
25,000,000  
            
490,000,000  
4 
Senior Unsecured Notes (112.21.c&d) 
Excludes Spent Nuc Fuel Disp Fund 
     
3,419,099,201  
    
1,692,000,000  
       
530,000,000                      -     3,351,580,000                    -    
        
10,435,424,201  
5 
Less: Fair Value Hedges (See Note on 
Ln 7 below)                        -                          -                          -                        -                      -                      -                               -    
6 Total Long Term Debt Balance 
     
3,501,599,201  
    
1,717,000,000  
       
550,000,000  
       
20,000,000   3,248,580,000  
     
25,000,000  
        
10,604,924,201  
7 
 
NOTE:  The balance of fair value hedges on outstanding long term debt are to be excluded from the balance of long term debt included in the formula's capital structure. (page 257, Column H of 
the FF1) 
Development of Long Term Debt Interest 
Expense        
8 
Interest on Long Term Debt (256-
257.33.i)         201,508,637  
       
100,346,371          30,323,070  
         
1,075,000     129,578,994         1,312,500  
            
547,990,827  
9 
Amort of Debt Discount & Expense 
(117.63.c)             3,232,592            3,157,632               457,098                      -           3,354,846                    -    
              
12,043,656  
10 
Amort of Loss on Reacquired Debt 
(117.64.c)               991,540            1,596,824                 33,649                      -              626,793                    -    
                
3,992,302  
11 
Less: Amort of Premium on Debt 
(117.65.c)                        -                          -                          -                        -                      -                      -    
                           
-    
12 
Less: Amort of Gain on Reacquired 
Debt (117.66.c)                        -                     1,712                        -                        -                      -                      -    
                      
1,712  
13 Less: Hedge Interest on pp 256-257(i)             2,569,395            1,551,518                 92,956                      -          (7,185,191)                   -    
               
(2,971,322) 
14 LTD Interest Expense         203,163,374  
       
103,547,597          30,720,861  
         
1,075,000     140,745,824         1,312,500  
            
566,996,395  
Development of Cost of Preferred Stock and Preferred Dividends 
 
     

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 14 
15 Dividend Rate (p. 250-251. 7.a) 4.50% 4.125%     4.08%    
16 Par Value (p. 250-251. 8.c)  $             100.00   $            100.00       $         100.00     
17 Shares Outstanding (p.250-251. 8.e)               177,518                 55,301                  14,595     
18 Monetary Value (Ln 16 * Ln 17)           17,751,800            5,530,100                        -                        -           1,459,500                    -    
              
24,741,400  
19 Dividend Amount (Ln 15 * Ln 18)               798,831               228,117                        -                        -                59,548                    -    
                
1,086,495  
20 Dividend Rate (p. 250-251. 7.a)   4.12%     4.20%    
21 Par Value (p. 250-251. 8.c)    $            100.00       $         100.00     
22 Shares Outstanding (p.250-251. 8.e)                  11,055                  22,824     
23 Monetary Value (Ln 21 * Ln 22)                        -              1,105,500                        -                        -           2,282,400                    -    
                
3,387,900  
24 Dividend Amount (Ln 20 * Ln 23)                        -                   45,547                        -                        -                95,861                    -    
                   
141,407  
25 Dividend Rate (p. 250-251. 7.a)   4.56%     4.40%    
26 Par Value (p. 250-251. 8.c)    $            100.00       $         100.00     
27 Shares Outstanding (p.250-251. 8.e)                  14,412                  31,482     
28 Monetary Value (Ln 26 * Ln 27)                        -              1,441,200                        -                        -           3,148,200                    -    
                
4,589,400  
29 Dividend Amount (Ln 25 * Ln 28)                        -                   65,719                        -                        -              138,521                    -    
                   
204,240  
30 Dividend Rate (p. 250-251. 7.a)         4.50%    
31 Par Value (p. 250-251. 8.c)          $         100.00     
32 Shares Outstanding (p.250-251. 8.e)                     97,363     
33 Monetary Value (Ln 31 * Ln 32)                        -                          -                          -                        -           9,736,300                    -    
                
9,736,300  
34 Dividend Amount (Ln 30 * Ln 33)                        -                          -                          -                        -              438,134                    -    
                   
438,134  
35 Preferred Stock (Lns 18, 23, 28,33)           17,751,800            8,076,800                        -                        -         16,626,400                    -    
              
42,455,000  
36 
Preferred Dividends (Lns 19, 24, 
29,34)               798,831               339,382                        -                        -              732,063                    -    
                
1,870,276  
Development of Common Equity        
37 Proprietary Capital (112.16.c)      2,789,329,067  
    
1,680,859,984  
       
431,783,697  
       
21,335,470   3,251,321,953       43,904,852  
          
9,578,370,175  
38 Less: Preferred Stock (Ln 35 Above) 
           
 
17,751,800            8,076,800                        -                        -         16,626,400                    -    
              
42,455,000  
39 Less: Account 216.1 (112.12.c)             2,593,528  
            
(581,331)                       -                        -                      -                      -    
                
4,076,997  
40 Less: Account 219.1 (112.15.c)          (50,254,363)                                     (118,458,118)      (1,749,500)            

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-20A - Appendix A - AEPTCo 
Effective Date: 7/1/2016 - Docket #: ER16-646-000 - Page 15 
(21,700,504) (600,942) 5,560  (242,751,398) 
41 Balance of Common Equity      2,819,238,102  
    
1,695,065,019  
       
432,384,639  
       
21,329,910   3,353,153,671       45,654,352  
          
9,774,589,576  
Calculation of Capital Shares        
42 Long Term Debt (Ln 6 Above)      3,501,599,201  
    
1,717,000,000  
       
550,000,000  