[ATTACHMENT DD - Part 2 of 2]

unit-specific Avoidable Cost Rate is acceptable.  The Capacity Market Seller and Office of the 
Interconnection’s deadlines relating to the submittal and acceptance of a request for a unit-
specific Avoidable Cost Rate are delineated in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.7(d).  
 
I. Determination of PJM Market Revenues:   
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall calculate the Projected PJM Market Revenues for any 
Generation Capacity Resource to which the Avoidable Cost Rate is applied pursuant to Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 6.8(d), and notify the Capacity Market Seller and the Office of the 
Interconnection of its determination in writing by no later than ninety (90) days prior to the 
commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction. 
 
J. Determination of Opportunity Costs:   
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall review and verify the documentation of prices available to 
Existing Generation Capacity Resources in markets external to PJM and proposed for inclusion 
in Opportunity Costs pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.7(d)(ii).  The Market 
Monitoring Unit shall notify, in writing, such Generation Capacity Resource and the Office of 
the Interconnection if it is dissatisfied with the documentation provided and whether it objects to 
the inclusion of such Opportunity Costs in a Market Seller Offer by no later than ninety (90) 
days prior to the commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction.  If such 
Generation Capacity Resource submits a Market Seller Offer that includes Opportunity Costs 
that have not been documented and verified to the Market Monitoring Unit’s satisfaction, then 
the Market Monitoring Unit may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of its concerns 
and request a determination that would require the Generation Capacity Resource to remove 
them.  
 
III. BLACKSTART SERVICE 
 
A. Upon the submission by a Black Start Unit owner of a request for Black Start Service 
revenue requirements and changes to the Black Start Service revenue requirements for the Black 
Start Unit, the Black Start Unit owner and the Market Monitoring Unit shall attempt to agree to 
values on the level of each component included in the Black Start Service revenue requirements 
by no later than May 14 of each year.  The Market Monitoring Unit shall calculate the revenue 
requirement for each Black Start Unit and provide its calculation to the Office of the 
Interconnection by no later than May 14 of each year. 
 
B. Pursuant to the terms of Tariff, Schedule 6A and the PJM Manuals, the Market 
Monitoring Unit will analyze any requested generator black start cost changes on an annual basis 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 14 
and shall notify the Office of the Interconnection of any costs to which it and the Black Start 
Unit owner have agreed or the Market Monitoring Unit’s determination regarding any cost 
components to which agreement has not been obtained. If a Black Start Unit owner includes a 
cost component inconsistent with its agreement or inconsistent with the Market Monitoring 
Unit’s determination regarding such cost component, and the Office of the Interconnection 
accepts the Black Start Service revenue requirements submitted by the Black Start Unit owner, 
the Market Monitoring Unit may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of its concerns 
and request a determination that would require the Black Start Service generator to utilize the 
values determined by the Market Monitoring Unit or the Office of the Interconnection or such 
other values as determined by the Commission. 
 
IV. DEACTIVATION RATES 
 
1. Upon receipt of a notice to deactivate a generating unit under Tariff, Part V from the 
Office of the Interconnection forwarded pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall analyze the effects of the proposed deactivation with regard to potential 
market power issues and shall notify the Office of the Interconnection and the generator owner 
(or, if applicable, its designated agent) if a market power issue has been identified. The Market 
Monitoring Unit shall provide such notice by the following date: (a) May 31 of the current 
calendar year, if the Transmission Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part 
V, section 113.1 between January 1 and March 31; (b) August 31 of the current calendar year, if 
the Transmission Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 
between April 1 and June 30; (c) November 30 of the current calendar year, if the Transmission 
Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 between July 1 and 
September 30; or (d) February 28 of the following calendar year, if the Transmission Provider 
received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 between October 1 and 
December 31. Such notice shall include the specific market power impact resulting from the 
proposed deactivation of the generating unit, as well as an initial assessment of any steps that 
could be taken to mitigate the market power impact. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit and the generating unit owner shall attempt to come to 
agreement on the level of each component included in the Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit. 
In the case of cost of service filing submitted to the Commission in alternative to the 
Deactivation Cost Credit, the Market Monitoring Unit shall indicate to the generating unit owner 
in advance of filing its views regarding the proposed method or cost components of recovery. 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Office of the Interconnection of any costs to which 
it and the generating unit owner have agreed or the Market Monitoring Unit’s determination 
regarding any cost components to which agreement has not been obtained. If a generating unit 
owner includes a cost component inconsistent with its agreement or inconsistent with the Market 
Monitoring Unit’s determination regarding such cost components, the Market Monitoring Unit 
may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of its concerns and seek a determination that 
would require the Generating unit to include an appropriate cost component.  This provision is 
duplicated in Tariff, Part V, section 114 and Tariff, Part V, section 119.    
 
V. OPPORTUNITY COST CALCULATION 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 15 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall review requests for opportunity cost compensation under 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.2.3(f-3) and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 3.2.3B(h) and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2.3(f-
3) and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2. 
3B(h), discuss with the Office of the Interconnection and individual Market Sellers the amount 
of compensation, and file exercise its powers to inform  Commission staff of its concerns and 
request a determination of compensation as provided by such sections. These requirements are 
duplicated in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.2.3(f-3) and Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 3.2.3B(h) and the paralelle provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 3.2.3(f-3) and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2.3B9H). 
 
VI. FTR FORFEITURE RULE  
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall calculate Transmission Congestion Credits as required under 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.1(b) and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
5.2.1(b), including the determination of the identity of the Effective FTR Holder and an 
evaluation of the overall benefits accrued by an entity or affiliated entities trading in FTRs and 
Virtual Transactions in the Day-ahead Energy Market, and provide such calculations to the 
Office of the Interconnection. Nothing in this section shall preclude the Market Monitoring Unit 
from action to recover inappropriate benefits from the subject activity if the amount forfeited is 
less than the benefit derived by the Effective FTR Holder. If the Office of the Interconnection 
imposes a forfeiture of the Transmission Congestion Credit in an amount that the Market 
Monitoring Unit disagrees with, then it may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of 
its concerns and request an adjustment. 
 
VII. FORCED OUTAGE RULE 
 
1. The Market Monitoring Unit shall observe offers submitted in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market to determine whether  all or part of a generating unit’s capacity (MW) is designated as 
Maximum Emergency and (i) such offer in the Real-time Energy Market designates a smaller 
amount of capacity from that unit as Maximum Emergency for the same time period, and (ii) 
there is no physical reason to designate a larger amount of capacity as Maximum Emergency in 
the offer in the Day-ahead Energy Market than in the Real-time Energy Market, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall notify the Office of Interconnection. 
 
2. If the Market Monitoring Unit observes that (i) an offer submitted in the Day-ahead 
Energy market designates all or part of capacity (MW) of a Generating unit as economic 
maximum that is less than the economic maximum designated in the offer in the Real-time 
Energy Market, and (ii) there is no physical reason to designate a lower economic maximum in 
the offer in the Day-ahead Energy Market than in the offer in the Real-time Energy Market, the 
Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Office of Interconnection. 
 
VIII. DATA COLLECTION AND VERIFICATION  
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall gather and keep confidential detailed data on the procurement 
and usage of fuel to produce electric power transmitted in the PJM Region in order to assist the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 16 
performance of its duties under Tariff, Attachment M. To achieve this objective, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall maintain on its website a mechanism that allows Members to conveniently 
and confidentially submit such data and develop a manual in consultation with stakeholders that 
describes the nature of and procedure for collecting data. Members of PJM owning a Generating 
unit that is located in the PJM Region (including Dynamic Transfer units), or is included in a 
PJM Black Start Service plan, committed as a Generation Capacity Resource for the current or 
future Delivery Year, or otherwise subject to a commitment to provide service to PJM, shall 
provide data to the Market Monitoring Unit.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-1 (FirstEnergy Zones) 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 1 
