ATTACHMENT H-30B 
 
TRANSOURCE MARYLAND, LLC 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
The formula rate template (“Template”) and these formula rate implementation 
protocols (“Protocols”) together comprise the filed rate (“Formula Rate”) of Transource 
Maryland, LLC (“Transource Maryland”) for transmission revenue requirement 
determinations under the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) Open Access 
Transmission Tariff (“PJM Tariff”).  Transource Maryland shall follow the instructions 
specified in the Formula Rate to calculate annually its net annual transmission revenue 
requirement, as set forth at Attachment H-30A, page 1, line 10 of the Template (“Net 
Revenue Requirement”).  The Net Revenue Requirement shall be determined for 
January 1 to December 31 of a given calendar year (the “Rate Year”).      
Section 1. Annual Projection 
a. No later than September 30 preceding the first Rate Year, and each subsequent 
Rate Year, Transource Maryland shall determine its projected Net Revenue 
Requirement for the upcoming Rate Year in accordance with Transource 
Maryland’s Formula Rate (“Annual Projection”).  The Annual Projection shall 
include the True-Up Adjustment described and defined in Section 2 below, if 
applicable.  Transource Maryland shall cause an electronic version of the Annual 
Projection to be posted in both a Portable Document Format (“PDF”) and fully 
functioning Excel file at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website 
and open access same-time information system (“OASIS”).   
b. The posting of the Annual Projection shall: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 2 
(i) Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as 
supporting documentation and workpapers for data that are used in the 
projected Net Revenue Requirement; 
(ii) Include all inputs in sufficient detail to identify the components of 
Transource Maryland’s projected Net Revenue Requirement, explanations 
of the bases for the projections and input data, and sufficient detail and 
explanation to enable Interested Parties1 to replicate the calculation of the 
projected Net Revenue Requirement;   
(iii) With respect to any Accounting Changes (as that term is defined in 
Section 3.e.iii)— 
A. Identify any Accounting Changes including:  
i. The initial implementation of an accounting standard or 
policy; 
ii. The initial implementation of accounting practices for 
unusual or unconventional items where the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”) has 
not provided specific accounting direction;  
iii. Correction of errors and prior period adjustments that 
impact the projected Net Revenue Requirement calculation;  
 
1 As used in these Protocols, “Interested Parties” shall include but not be limited to:  (i) any Eligible 
Customer under the PJM Tariff; (ii) any regulatory agency with rate jurisdiction over a public utility 
located within the PJM footprint; (iii) any consumer advocate authorized by state law to review and contest 
the rates for any such public utility; and (iv) any party with standing under Federal Power Act (“FPA”) 
section 205 or section 206. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 3 
iv. The implementation of new estimation methods or policies 
that change prior estimates; and  
v. Changes to income tax elections;  
B. Identify items included in the projected Net Revenue Requirement 
at an amount other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value 
adjustments);  
C. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the 
previous year and explain the effect of the accounting for such 
transaction(s) on inputs to the projected Net Revenue Requirement; 
and  
D. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to Section 1.b.iii.A–C of 
these Protocols, a narrative explanation of the individual impact of 
such changes on the projected Net Revenue Requirement.  
c.  If the date for making the posting of the Annual Projection should fall on a 
weekend or a holiday recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be made no 
later than the next business day.2  Within five (5) calendar days of the posting, 
PJM shall provide notice of such posting via the PJM Members Committee email 
subscription (“PJM Exploder List”).  Interested Parties can subscribe to the PJM 
Exploder List on the PJM website.   
d. Together with the posting of the Annual Projection, Transource Maryland shall 
cause to be posted on the PJM internet website and OASIS, and distributed to the 
 
2 For the purposes of these Protocols, if any deadline included in these Protocols should fall on a weekend 
or a holiday recognized by FERC, then the deadline shall be extended to no later than the next business 
day. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 4 
PJM Exploder List, the time, date, location, and remote-access information for a 
stakeholder meeting with Interested Parties in order for Transource Maryland to 
explain its Annual Projection and to provide Interested Parties an opportunity to 
seek information and clarifications regarding the Annual Projection (“Annual 
Projection Meeting”).  The Annual Projection Meeting shall be held no less than 
twenty (20) business days and no more than thirty (30) business days after the 
posting of the Annual Projection.  Notice of the Annual Projection Meeting shall 
be provided via the PJM Exploder List no less than seven (7) calendar days prior 
to the meeting.  Transource Maryland will provide remote access to the Annual 
Projection Meeting in order to ease burdens (e.g., travel costs) to ensure all 
Interested Parties have the opportunity to participate.  
e. To the extent Transource Maryland agrees to make changes in the Annual 
Projection for a given Rate Year, such revised Annual Projection shall be 
promptly posted at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website and 
OASIS, and e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  Changes posted prior to 
November 30 preceding the Rate Year, or the next business day if November 30 
is not a business day (or such later date as can be accommodated under PJM’s 
billing practices), shall be reflected in the Annual Projection for the Rate Year; 
changes posted after that date will be reflected, as appropriate, in the True-Up 
Adjustment for the Rate Year.   
f. The Annual Projection, including the True-Up Adjustment, for each Rate Year 
shall be subject to review, challenge, true-up, and refunds or surcharges with 
interest, to the extent and in the manner provided in these Protocols. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 5 
Section 2.  True-Up Adjustment 
Transource Maryland will calculate the amount of under- or over-collection of its 
actual Net Revenue Requirement during the preceding Rate Year (“True-Up 
Adjustment”) after the FERC Form No. 1 data for that Rate Year has been filed with the 
Commission.  The True-Up Adjustment shall be the sum of the True-Up Adjustment 
Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(a) and the Interest on the True-Up 
Adjustment Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(b): 
a.  Transource Maryland’s projected Net Revenue Requirement collected during the 
previous Rate Year3 will be compared to Transource Maryland’s actual Net 
Revenue Requirement for the previous Rate Year calculated in accordance with 
Transource Maryland’s Formula Rate and based upon (i) Transource Maryland’s 
FERC Form No. 1 for that same Rate Year, (ii) any FERC orders specifically 
applicable to Transource Maryland’s calculation of its annual revenue 
requirement, (iii) the books and records of Transource Maryland (which shall be 
maintained consistent with the FERC Uniform System of Accounts (“USofA”)), 
(iv) FERC accounting policies and practices applicable to the calculation of 
annual revenue requirements under formula rates, and (v) any aspects of the PJM 
Tariff Governing Documents4 that apply to the calculation of annual revenue 
 
3 If the initial use of the Formula Rate covers only part of a calendar year, the initial projected Net Revenue 
Requirement will be divided by the number of months the Formula Rate is in effect to calculate the 
monthly projected cost of service to be collected each month of the first year.  Similarly, the actual Net 
Revenue Requirement will be divided by the number of months the rate is in effect to calculate the actual 
cost of service to be collected each month of the first year.  The first True-Up Adjustment will compare the 
projected Net Revenue Requirement collected and the actual Net Revenue Requirement for that initial Rate 
Year. 
4 PJM Tariff Governing Documents include the PJM Tariff, Bylaws, Criteria, and Membership 
Agreements. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 6 
requirements under individual transmission owner formula rates, to determine any 
over- or under-recovery (“True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery”).   
b. Interest on any True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery of the actual Net 
Revenue Requirement shall be calculated in accordance with Attachment 6 of the 
Formula Rate.  Interest on any True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery shall 
be calculated for the twenty-four (24) months during which the over- or under-
recovery in the revenue requirement exists, i.e., January 1 of the Rate Year being 
trued-up through December 31 of the following year.  The interest rate to be 
applied to the over-recovery or under-recovery amounts will be determined using 
the average monthly FERC Interest Rate (as determined pursuant to 18 C.F.R. 
§ 35.19a) for the twenty (20) months from the beginning of the Rate Year being 
trued-up through August 31 of the following year.  
Section 3.  Annual Update 
a. On or before June 30 following each Rate Year, Transource Maryland shall 
calculate its actual Net Revenue Requirement and the True-Up Adjustment as 
described in Section 2 for such Rate Year (“Annual Update”) and, together with 
such other information described in this Section 3, shall cause such Annual 
Update to be posted, in both a PDF and fully functioning Excel format, at a 
publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS.  Within five 
(5) calendar days of such posting, PJM shall provide notice of such posting via 
the PJM Exploder List.    

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 7 
b. If the date for making the Annual Update posting should fall on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be due on the next business 
day. 
c. The date on which the posting occurs shall be that year’s “Publication Date.” 
d. Together with the posting of the Annual Update, Transource Maryland shall 
cause to be posted on the PJM website and OASIS the time, date, location, and 
remote-access information for a stakeholder meeting with Interested Parties in 
order for Transource Maryland to explain its Annual Update and to provide 
Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and clarifications regarding 
the Annual Update (“Annual Update Meeting”).  Notice of the Annual Update 
Meeting shall be provided via the PJM Exploder List no less than seven (7) 
calendar days prior to the meeting.  The Annual Update Meeting shall be held no 
less than twenty (20) business days and no more than thirty (30) business days 
after the Publication Date.  Transource Maryland will provide remote access to 
the Annual Update Meeting in order to ease burdens (e.g., travel costs) to ensure 
all Interested Parties have the opportunity to participate.   
e. The Annual Update posting for the Rate Year: 
(i)  Shall provide, via the Formula Rate worksheets, sufficiently detailed 
supporting documentation for data (and all adjustments thereto or 
allocations thereof) used in the Formula Rate that are not stated in the 
FERC Form No. 1;5 
 
5 It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations described 
therein, that each input to the Formula Rate for purposes of determining the actual Net Revenue 
Requirement for a given Rate Year will be either taken directly from the FERC Form No. 1, or reconcilable 
to the FERC Form No. 1, by the application of clearly identified and supported information.  If the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 8 
(ii) Shall provide sufficient detail and sufficient explanation to enable 
Interested Parties to replicate the calculation of the Annual Update results 
from the FERC Form No. 1 and verify that each input to the Template is 
consistent with the requirements of the Formula Rate; 
(iii) Shall identify:  
A. Any change in accounting that affects inputs to the Template or the 
resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate (“Accounting 
Change”), including: 
i. The initial implementation of an accounting standard or 
policy;  
ii. The initial implementation of accounting practices for 
unusual or unconventional items where FERC has not 
provided specific accounting direction; 
iii.  Correction of errors and prior period adjustments that 
impact the True-Up Adjustment calculation; 
iv. The implementation of new estimation methods or policies 
that change prior estimates; and 
v. Changes to income tax elections; 
B. Any items included in the Annual Update at an amount other than 
on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
 
referenced form is superseded, the successor form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as necessary to 
provide equivalent information as that provided in the superseded form.  If the referenced form is 
discontinued, equivalent information as that provided in the discontinued form shall be utilized. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 9 
C. Any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year 
and an explanation of the effect of the accounting for such 
transaction(s) on inputs to the Annual Update; 
D. For each item identified pursuant to Sections 3.e.iii.A–C of these 
Protocols, the individual impact (in narrative format) of such 
changes on the Annual Update;  
(iv) Shall identify any changes in the formula references (page and line 
numbers) to the FERC Form No. 1; 
(v) Shall identify all material adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data 
in determining formula inputs, including relevant footnotes to the FERC 
Form No. 1 and any adjustments not shown in the FERC Form No. 1; 
(vi) Shall include for the applicable Rate Year the following information 
related to affiliate cost allocation:  (1) a detailed description of the 
methodologies used to allocate and directly assign costs between 
Transource Maryland and its affiliates by service category or function, 
including any changes to such cost allocation methodologies from the 
prior year, and the reasons and justification for those changes; and (2) the 
magnitude of such costs that have been allocated or directly assigned 
between Transource Maryland and each affiliate by service category or 
function; 
(vii) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Sections 4, 5, and 6 of these Protocols;  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 10 
(viii) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in these Protocols with respect to the prudence of 
any costs and expenditures included for recovery in the Annual Update; 
provided, however, that nothing in these Protocols is intended to modify 
the Commission’s applicable precedent with respect to the burden of 
going forward or burden of proof under formula rates in such prudence 
challenges; and 
(ix) Shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be subject to 
challenge by any Interested Party seeking to modify the Formula Rate 
(i.e., any modifications to the Formula Rate will require, as applicable, an 
FPA section 205 or section 206 filing or initiation of a section 206 
investigation). 
f. The following Formula Rate inputs shall be stated values to be used in the 
Formula Rate until changed pursuant to an FPA section 205 or section 206 
proceeding:  (i) rate of return on common equity (“ROE”); (ii) the depreciation 
and/or amortization rates as set forth in Attachment 10 to the Formula Rate 
template; and (iii) Post-Employment Benefits other than Pension (“PBOP”) 
charges.   
g. Example – Timelines for first Annual Projection and first Annual Update: 
 On or before September 30, 2017, Transource Maryland will determine the 
projected Net Revenue Requirement for the 2018 Rate Year, which is expected 
to be the first year that costs are recovered from PJM customers under the 
Formula Rate.  Transource Maryland will post the Annual Projection for the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 11 
2018 Rate Year in accordance with Section 1 above.  On or before June 30, 
2019, Transource Maryland will post its first Annual Update, consisting of the 
actual Net Revenue Requirement and True-Up Adjustment for the 2018 Rate 
Year determined pursuant to Section 2 above.  Such True-Up Adjustment will be 
reflected in the Annual Projection of the Net Revenue Requirement for the 2020 
Rate Year posted on or before September 30, 2019.   
Section 4.  Annual Review Procedures 
Each Annual Update and Annual Projection shall be subject to the following 
review procedures (“Annual Review Procedures”): 
a. Interested Parties shall have up to the later of two-hundred-ten (210) calendar 
days after the Publication Date, or thirty (30) calendar days after the receipt of 
all responses to timely submitted information requests (unless such period is 
extended with the written consent of Transource Maryland or by FERC order) 
(“Review Period”), to review the calculations and to notify Transource Maryland 
in writing of any specific challenges to the Annual Update or Annual Projection 
(“Preliminary Challenge”), including challenges related to Accounting Changes.  
An Interested Party submitting a Preliminary Challenge must specify the inputs, 
supporting explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information to which 
it objects, and provide an appropriate explanation and documents to support its 
challenge.  Transource Maryland shall promptly cause to be posted all 
Preliminary Challenges at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet 
website and OASIS, and a link to the website will be e-mailed to the PJM 
Exploder List.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 12 
b.  In the event of a Preliminary Challenge, Transource Maryland will appoint a 
senior representative to work with the Interested Party (or its representatives) 
toward a resolution of the dispute.   
c. Transource Maryland shall respond in writing to a Preliminary Challenge within 
twenty (20) business days of receipt, and its response shall notify the challenging 
party of the extent to which Transource Maryland agrees or disagrees with the 
challenge.  If Transource Maryland disagrees with the Preliminary Challenge, it 
will provide the Interested Party with an explanation supporting the challenged 
inputs, explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information.  Transource 
Maryland shall promptly cause to be posted its responses to all Preliminary 
Challenges at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website and 
OASIS, and a link to the website will be e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  
Provided however, that Preliminary Challenges and responses to Preliminary 
Challenges that include material deemed by Transource Maryland to be 
confidential information will not be publicly posted but will be made available to 
requesting parties pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to be executed by 
Transource Maryland and the requesting party.   
d. Transource Maryland shall respond to all Preliminary Challenges submitted 
during the Review Period by no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the end 
of the Review Period.  
e. Interested Parties shall have up to one-hundred-fifty (150) calendar days after 
each annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 13 
consent of Transource Maryland or by FERC order) to serve reasonable 
information requests on Transource Maryland (“Discovery Period”).   
f.  Information requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine:  (i) the 
extent, effect, or impact of an Accounting Change; (ii) whether the Annual 
Update or Annual Projection fails to include data properly recorded in 
accordance with the Protocols; (iii) the proper application of the Template and 
procedures in the Protocols; (iv) the accuracy of data and consistency with the 
Formula Rate of the charges shown in the Annual Update or Annual Projection; 
(v) the prudence of the actual costs and expenditures, including procurement 
methods and cost control methodologies; (vi) the effect of any change to the 
underlying USofA or FERC Form No. 1; and (vii) any other information that 
may reasonably have substantive effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant 
to the Formula Rate.  The information requests shall not otherwise be directed to 
ascertaining whether the Formula Rate is just and reasonable.  Information 
requests shall not solicit information concerning costs or allocations where the 
costs or allocation methods have been determined to be appropriate by FERC in 
the context of prior Transource Maryland Annual Updates, except that such 
information requests shall be permitted if they (i) seek to determine if there has 
been a change in circumstances, (ii) are in connection with corrections pursuant 
to Section 6 of these Protocols, or (iii) relate to costs or allocations that have not 
previously been challenged and adjudicated by FERC.   
g. Transource Maryland shall make a good faith effort to respond to information 
requests pertaining to the Annual Update or Annual Projection within fifteen (15) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 14 
business days of receipt of such requests.  Transource Maryland shall respond to 
all information requests no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the end of the 
Discovery Period.  Transource Maryland will cause to be posted on the PJM 
website and OASIS all information requests from Interested Parties and 
Transource Maryland’s response(s) to such requests, and a link to the website will 
be e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  Provided however, that information and 
document requests and responses to information and document requests that 
include material deemed by Transource Maryland to be confidential information 
will not be publicly posted but will be made available to requesting parties 
pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to be executed by Transource Maryland 
and the requesting party. 
h.  Transource Maryland shall not claim that responses to information and document 
requests provided pursuant to these Protocols are subject to any settlement 
privilege in any subsequent FERC proceeding addressing Transource Maryland’s 
Annual Update or Annual Projection. 
i. To the extent Transource Maryland and any Interested Party(ies) are unable to 
resolve disputes related to information requests submitted in accordance with 
these Annual Review Procedures, Transource Maryland or the Interested 
Party(ies) may petition FERC to appoint an Administrative Law Judge as a 
discovery master to resolve the discovery dispute(s) in accordance with these 
Protocols and consistent with FERC’s discovery rules. 
j. Preliminary Challenges or Formal Challenges (as described in Sections 4 and 5) 
related to Accounting Changes shall be treated in the same manner under these 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 15 
Protocols as other challenges to the Annual Update or Annual Projection.  
Failure to make a Preliminary Challenge with respect to an Accounting Change 
in an Annual Update or Annual Projection shall not act as a bar with respect to a 
Formal Challenge with respect to that Annual Update or Annual Projection 
provided that the Interested Party submitted a Preliminary Challenge with 
respect to one or more other issues.  Nor shall such failure bar a subsequent 
Preliminary Challenge related to a subsequent Annual Update or Annual 
Projection to the extent such Accounting Change affects the subsequent Annual 
Update or Annual Projection. 
k. If a change made by Transource Maryland to its accounting policies, practices, 
or procedures, or the application of the Formula Rate, is found by FERC to be 
unjust, unreasonable, or unduly discriminatory or preferential, then the 
calculation of the charges to be assessed during the Rate Year then under review, 
and the charges to be assessed during any subsequent Rate Years, including any 
True-Up Adjustments, shall not include such change, but shall include any 
remedy that may be prescribed by FERC in the exercise of its discretion as of the 
effective date of such remedy, to ensure that the Formula Rate continues to 
operate in a manner that is just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory or 
preferential.  
 Section 5. Resolution of Challenges 
a. Interested Parties shall have up to the later of April 15 following the Publication 
Date or thirty (30) calendar days after Transource Maryland makes the 
informational filing described in Section 7 below (unless such period is extended 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 16 
with the written consent of Transource Maryland or by FERC order), to file a 
challenge with FERC (“Formal Challenge”).  Such Formal Challenge shall be 
submitted in the same docket as Transource Maryland’s informational filing and 
shall be served on Transource Maryland by electronic service on the date of such 
filing in accordance with Section 385.2010(f)(3) of the Commission’s 
regulations.   
b. Subject to any applicable confidentiality and Critical Energy Infrastructure 
Information restrictions, all information and correspondence produced by 
Transource Maryland pursuant to these Protocols may be included in any Formal 
Challenge or other FERC proceeding relating to the Formula Rate.  
c. Formal Challenges are to be filed pursuant to these Protocols, rather than under 
rule 206, and shall: 
(i) Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the 
Formula Rate Template or Protocols;  
(ii)   Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed rate Template or 
Protocols; 
(iii)   Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues presented 
by the action or inaction as such relate to or affect the party filing the 
Formal Challenge, including 
A.  The extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
B. Whether the Annual Update or Annual Projection fails to include 
data properly recorded in accordance with these Protocols;  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 17 
C. The proper application of the Template and procedures in these 
Protocols;  
D. The accuracy of the data and consistency with the Formula Rate 
of the charges shown in the Annual Update or Annual Projection; 
E. The prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
F. The effect of any change to the underlying USofA or the FERC 
Form No. 1; or  
G. Any other information that may reasonably have substantive 
effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Template.  
(iv) Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if 
any) created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of the 
action or inaction; 
(v)  State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing 
Commission proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the 
filing party is a party, and, if so, provide an explanation why timely 
resolution cannot be achieved in that forum; 
(vi) State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for 
stay or extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
(vii) Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in 
possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, including, but 
not limited to, contracts and affidavits; and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 18 
(viii) State whether the filing party utilized the Preliminary Challenge 
procedures described in these Protocols to dispute the action or inaction 
raised by the Formal Challenge, and, if not, describe why not. 
d. Preliminary and Formal Challenges shall be limited to issues that may be 
necessary to determine: (i) the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
(ii) whether the Annual Update or Annual Projection fails to include data 
properly recorded in accordance with these Protocols; (iii) the proper application 
of the Formula Rate and procedures in these Protocols; (iv) the accuracy of data 
and consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations shown in the Annual 
Update and Annual Projection; (v) the prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
(vi) the effect of any change to the underlying USofA or FERC Form No. 1; or 
(vii) any other information that may reasonably have substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the formula. 
e.  Failure to raise an issue in a Preliminary Challenge shall not bar an Interested 
Party from raising that issue in a Formal Challenge, provided the Interested Party 
submitted a Preliminary Challenge during the Review Period with respect to one 
or more other issues. 
f. Failure to pursue an issue through a Preliminary Challenge or to lodge a Formal 
Challenge regarding any issue as to a given Annual Update or Annual Projection 
shall bar pursuit of such issue with respect to that Annual Update or Annual 
Projection, but shall not bar pursuit of such issue or the lodging of a Formal 
Challenge as to such issue as it relates to a subsequent Annual Update or Annual 
Projection. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 19 
g. Any response by Transource Maryland to a Formal Challenge must be submitted 
to FERC within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the filing of the Formal 
Challenge, and shall be served on the filing party(ies) and the PJM Exploder List 
on the date of such filing.  
h. In any Formal Challenge proceeding concerning a given year’s Annual Update 
(including corrections), Annual Projection, or Accounting Change(s), 
Transource Maryland shall demonstrate the justness and reasonableness of the 
rate resulting from its application of the Formula Rate by demonstrating that it 
has reasonably and accurately calculated the Annual Update or Annual 
Projection and/or reasonably adopted and applied the Accounting Change.  
Nothing herein is intended to alter the burdens applied by FERC with respect to 
prudence challenges. 
i. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in 
any way the right of Transource Maryland to file unilaterally, pursuant to section 
205 of the FPA and the regulations thereunder, an application seeking changes to 
the Formula Rate or to any of the stated value inputs requiring a section 205 
filing under these Protocols (including, but not limited to, ROE and depreciation 
and amortization rates, and PBOP charges ), or the right of any other party or the 
Commission to seek such changes pursuant to section 206 of the FPA and the 
regulations thereunder.  
j. Transource Maryland may, at its discretion and at a time of its choosing, make a 
limited filing pursuant to section 205 to modify stated values in the Formula 
Rate (i) for amortization and depreciation rates, (ii) to correct obvious errors or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 20 
omissions in the Formula Rate such as would result from changes to the FERC 
Form No. 1, (iii) for the proration of the accumulated deferred income tax 
balances in rate base to ensure Transource Maryland’s compliance with the 
Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) regulations for normalization under IRS 
Section 1.167(l)-1(h)(6), or (iv) for PBOP charges.  The sole issue in any such 
limited section 205 proceeding shall be whether such proposed change(s) is just 
and reasonable, and it shall not address other aspects of the Formula Rate.     
Section 6. Changes to Annual Updates  
If Transource Maryland determines or concedes that corrections to the Annual 
Update are required, whether under Sections 4 or 5 of these Protocols, including but not 
limited to those requiring corrections to its FERC Form No. 1, or input data used for a 
Rate Year that would have affected the Annual Update for that Rate Year, such 
corrections shall be reflected as adjustments in the Annual Update for the next Rate 
Year, with interest calculated in accordance with the FERC Interest Rate (as determined 
pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a).  This reconciliation mechanism shall apply in lieu of 
mid-Rate Year adjustments.  
Section 7. Informational Filing 
Transource Maryland shall submit to FERC an informational filing 
(“Informational Filing”) of its projected Net Revenue Requirement and Annual Update 
by March 15 following the Publication Date or by forty-five (45) calendar days 
following the close of the Review Period, whichever is later.  This Informational Filing 
must include the information that is reasonably necessary to determine:  (1) that input 
data under the Formula Rate are properly recorded in any underlying workpapers; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 21 
(2) that Transource Maryland has properly applied the Formula Rate and these 
Protocols; (3) the accuracy of data and the consistency with the Formula Rate of the Net 
Revenue Requirement and rates under review; (4) the extent of Accounting Changes 
that affect Formula Rate inputs; and (5) the reasonableness of projected costs.  The 
Informational Filing must also describe any corrections or adjustments made during that 
period, and must describe all aspects of the Annual Update and Annual Projection or 
their inputs that are the subject of an ongoing dispute under the Preliminary or Formal 
Challenge procedures.  Additionally, the Informational Filing must include for the 
applicable Rate Year the following information related to affiliate cost allocation:  (1) a 
detailed description of the methodologies used to allocate and directly assign costs 
between Transource Maryland and its affiliates by service category or function, 
including any changes to such cost allocation and methodologies from the prior year, 
and the reasons and justification for those changes; and (2) the magnitude of such costs 
that have been allocated or directly assigned between Transource Maryland and each 
affiliate by service category or function.  Within five (5) calendar days of such 
Informational Filing, PJM shall provide notice of the Informational Filing via the PJM 
Exploder List and by posting the docket number assigned to Transource Maryland’s 
Informational Filing on the PJM website and OASIS.  Any challenges to the 
implementation of the Template must be made through the annual review and challenge 
procedures described in Sections 4 and 5 of these Protocols or in a separate complaint 
proceeding, and not in response to the Informational Filing. 
Section 8. Joint Informational Meeting  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 22 
 Transmission Owners with transmission projects that are subject to a regional or 
inter-regional cost sharing mechanism shall endeavor to hold a joint informational 
meeting to enable all Interested Parties to understand how those Transmission Owners 
are implementing their formula rates for cost recovery of such projects (“Joint 
Informational Meeting”).  The Joint Informational Meeting shall be remotely accessible. 
Notice of the Joint Informational Meeting, including the time, date, location, and 
remote-access information shall be posted on the PJM website and OASIS and 
distributed to the PJM Exploder List no less than seven (7) calendar days prior to such 
meeting.  Transource Maryland will participate in Joint Informational Meetings once it 
begins development of a project for which costs are to be regionally or inter-regionally 
allocated.   
Section 9.  Construction Work in Progress  
a. Accounting:  Transource Maryland shall use the following accounting 
procedures to ensure that it does not accrue an Allowance for Funds Used 
During Construction (“AFUDC”) with respect to any amount of Construction 
Work In Progress (“CWIP”) included in rate base. 
(i) Transource Maryland shall assign each transmission project a unique 
Funding Project Number (“FPN”) for internal cost tracking purposes. 
(ii) Transource Maryland shall record actual construction costs to each FPN 
through work orders that are coded to correspond to the FPN for each 
project for which FERC has authorized all or part of the CWIP balance to 
be included in rate base (“CWIP Project”).   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 23 
(iii) Each project-specific FPN tracking account will be programmed to 
calculate and accrue AFUDC only on the balance of CWIP that is not 
included in rate base.    
(iv) For each project under construction, Transource Maryland shall prepare 
monthly work order summaries of costs incurred under the associated 
FPN.  These summaries shall show monthly additions to CWIP in the 
FPN and, if less than 100% of the CWIP corresponding to the project 
FPN is included in rate base, shall separately identify through FPN 
subaccounts (i) the component of the project CWIP balance included in 
rate base; and (ii) the component of the project CWIP balance that is not 
included in rate base, including capitalized AFUDC.  The summaries will 
also show any additions to plant in service.  The summaries shall 
correspond to amounts recorded in FERC Account 107, CWIP, which 
account balance will be reported on Transource Maryland’s FERC Form 
No. 1.  Transource Maryland shall use these project-specific monthly 
summaries as data inputs into the annual CWIP report prepared under 
Section 9(b) and the Annual Update calculated pursuant to Section 3.  
Transource Maryland shall make such work order summaries available 
upon request under the review procedures of Section 4. 
(v) When a project, or portion thereof, is placed into service, Transource 
Maryland shall deduct from total CWIP the accumulated balance of the 
FPN tracking account for that project, or portion thereof.  The purpose of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 24 
this control process is to ensure that expenditures are not double-counted 
as both CWIP and as additions to plant. 
(vi) For CWIP Projects prior to the date upon which CWIP is first included in 
rate base, and for transmission projects for which the Commission has 
not authorized Transource Maryland to include any CWIP in rate base, 
Transource Maryland shall record AFUDC to be applied to the full CWIP 
balance of the FPN tracking account and capitalized when the project is 
placed into service. 
b. Annual Reporting:  For CWIP Projects, Transource Maryland shall file a report 
with the Commission at the time of Transource Maryland’s Informational Filing 
that shall include the following information concerning each transmission project 
under construction: 
(i) A demonstration that each project for which CWIP is included in rate 
base was identified through PJM’s regional planning process and 
awarded to Transource Maryland on the basis of a competitive bid;  
(ii) The cost allocation methodology for each project under the PJM Tariff; 
(iii) A tabulation of the monthly summaries described in Section 9(a)(iv) for 
each unique FPN tracking account, including thirteen (13) monthly 
balances illustrating the amount of CWIP included in rate base for the 
project, the amount of CWIP that is not included in rate base for the 
project, the amount of accumulated AFUDC associated with any CWIP 
not included in rate base, and any amounts recorded in related FERC 
accounts or subaccounts, such as regulatory liability; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-30B -Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 25 
(iv) The resulting effect of CWIP on the Net Revenue Requirement, including 
the percentage of any increase in the year-over-year Net Revenue 
Requirement that is attributable to CWIP, and the percentage of the total 
Net Revenue Requirement for the Rate Year that is attributable to CWIP; 
(v) A statement of the current status of each project; and 
(vi) The estimated in-service date for each project.  
Section 10.  Competitive Concessions 
 
For transmission development projects assigned to Transource Maryland as a 
result of the PJM competitive proposal process, Transource Maryland may, in its sole 
discretion, agree with PJM to apply a competitive concession that will result in a lower 
Net Revenue Requirement on a project-specific basis than that which would otherwise 
be produced by the Transource Maryland Attachment H-30A Formula Rate.  Any 
competitive concession will appear as a zero or negative input to the formula, and will 
be determined on a project-specific basis using a workpaper that will be provided to 
Interested Parties as supporting documentation for each Transource Maryland Annual 
Update.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-31 - OVEC Annual Transmission Revenue Rate 
Effective Date: 12/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-459-004 - Page 1 
