ATTACHMENT H-18B 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
Section 1 Annual Updates 
a. The Annual Transmission Revenue Requirements applicable under Attachment H 
shall be applicable to services on and after June 1 of a given calendar year 
through May 31 of the subsequent calendar year (the “Rate Year”).  
b. On or before May 15 of each year, TrAILCo shall recalculate its Annual 
Transmission Revenue Requirements, producing the “Annual Update” for the 
upcoming Rate Year, and post such Annual Update of PJM’s Internet website via 
link to the Transmission Services page or a similar successor page.  The Annual 
Update, which shall show separately the transmission revenue requirement for 
each TrAILCo facility listed in Schedule 12 – Appendix as subject to these 
procedures, shall also be provided to FERC in an informational filing. 
c. If the date for making the Annual Update posting/filing should fall on a weekend 
or a holiday recognized by the FERC, then the posting/filing shall be due on the 
next business day. 
d. The date on which the last of the events listed in Section 1.b or 1.c occurs shall be 
that year’s “Publication Date.” 
e. Upon written request for a particular year’s Annual Update by any wholesale 
customer, load serving entity whose customers are allocated costs of the TrAILCo 
facilities, any state utility commission in which customers that are allocated costs 
of the TrAILCo facilities are located, or any of the state consumer advocates who 
represent customers that are allocated costs of the TrAILCo facilities (collectively 
“Interested Parties”), TrAILCo will promptly make available to such entity and/or 
consultant designated by it, a “workable” Excel file containing that year’s Annual 
Update data.  On or before May 20 of each year, TrAILCo will send a “workable” 
Excel file containing that year’s Annual Update data to the attention of the 
Executive Secretary/General Counsel of the state utility commissions of 
Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. 
f. The Annual Update for the Rate Year: 
(i) shall, to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, be based upon 
TrAILCO’s FERC From No. 1 data for the most recent calendar year, and 
to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, be based upon the books and 
records of TrAILCo consistent with FERC accounting policies; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-18B - Trans-Allegheny 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 2 
(ii) shall, as and to the extent specified in the Formula Rate, provide 
supporting documentation for data not otherwise available in the FERC 
Form No. 1 that are used in the Formula Rate;1 
(iii) shall provide notice of material changes in TrAILCo’s accounting policies 
and practices from those in effect for the calendar year upon which the 
immediately preceding Annual Update was based (“Material Accounting 
Changes”); 2 
(iv) shall be subject to the challenge and review only in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in this Attachment H-18B and is contestable only with 
respect to the prudence of the costs and expenditures included for recovery 
in the Annual Update, as well as the accuracy of the data and the 
consistency with the Formula Rate of the charges shown in the Annual 
Update; and  
(v) shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be subject to 
challenge by seeking to modify the Formula Rate (i.e., all such 
modifications to the Formula Rate – including return on equity – will 
require, as applicable, a Federal Power Act Section 205 or Section 206 
filing).  
g. Formula Rate inputs (i) rate of return on common equity:  (ii) depreciation rates 
and/or amortization amounts, (iii) total “Post-Employment Benefits other than 
Pension” of Allegheny Energy Service Company pursuant to Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 106 Employers” Accounting for 
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions (“PBOP”) amortization, and (iv) 
amortization of pre-2007 pre-commercial costs shall be fixed in the rate formula 
until changed pursuant to an FPA Section 205 or 206 filing.  
h. The capital structure of TrAILCo during construction will be a hypothetical 
capital structure of 50 percent debt and 50 percent equity (“50/50”).  Upon 
completion of construction, TrAILCo will use its actual capital structure.  In 
determining the Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement for the Rate Year in 
which TrAILCo anticipates completing construction, TrAILCo will apply (i) a 
hypothetical 50/50 capital structure for the months prior to the month in 
______________________ 
1 It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations described therein, that each 
input to the Formula Rate will be either taken directly from the FERC Form No. 1 or reconcilable to the FERC Form 
No. 1 by the application of clearly identified and supported information.  Where the reconciliation is provided through 
a worksheet included in the filed Formula Rate template, the inputs to the worksheet must meet this transparency 
standard, and doing so will satisfy this transparency requirement for the amounts that are output from the worksheet 
and input to the main body of the Formula Rate. 
2 Such notice may incorporate by reference applicable statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-18B - Trans-Allegheny 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 3 
which construction is expected to be completed and (ii) the actual capital 
structure as calculated based upon the prior year’s Form No. 1 for the months 
including and after the month in which construction is expected to be 
completed.  In determining the Annual Update following the completion of 
construction, TrAILCo will reconcile the prior year’s Annual Transmission 
Revenue Requirement with a revenue requirement determined using the 
hypothetical 50/50 capital structure for the percentage of the Rate Year prior to 
the completion of construction and the actual year-end capital structure for the 
percent of the year following the completion of construction. 
Section 2 Construction Work in Progress 
For each incentive transmission project TrAILCo shall use accounting procedures to 
ensure that it does not recover an Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (“AFUDC”) to 
the extent that it has been authorized by a Commission order to include 100 percent of 
Construction Work in Progress (“CWIP”) in transmission rate base in Attachment 5 to Appendix 
A. 
Section 3 Annual Review Procedures 
Each Annual Update shall be subject to the following review procedures (“Annual 
Review Procedures”): 
a. Interested Parties shall have up to one hundred fifty (150) days after the 
Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of 
TrAILCo) to review the calculations (“Review Period”) and to notify TrAILCo 
in writing of any specific challenges, including challenges related to Material 
Accounting Changes, to the application of the Formula Rate (“Preliminary 
Challenge”). 
b. Interested Parties shall have up to one hundred twenty (120) days after each 
annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent 
of TrAILCo) to serve reasonable information requests on TrAILCo; provided, 
however, that the potentially Interested Parties shall make a good faith effort to 
submit consolidated sets of information requests that limit the number and 
overlap of questions to the maximum extent practicable.  Such information 
requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine if TrAILCo has 
properly applied the Formula Rate and the procedures in this Attachment H-
18B, and to determine the prudence of costs and expenditures included for 
recovery in the Annual Update, as well as the accuracy of data and the 
consistency with the Formula Rate of the charges shown in the Annual Update.  
In addition, such information requests shall not solicit information concerning 
costs or allocations where the costs or allocation method have been determined 
by FERC or in the context of other Annual Updates, except that such 
information requests shall be permitted if they seek to determine if there has 
been a material change in circumstances. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-18B - Trans-Allegheny 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 4 
c. TrAILCo shall make a good faith effort to respond to information requests 
pertaining to the Annual Update within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of 
such requests.  TrAILCo may give reasonable priority to responding to requests 
that satisfy the practicable coordination and consolidation provision of Section 
2.b above.  
d. Preliminary or Formal Challenges related to Material Accounting Changes 3 are 
not intended to serve as a means of pursuing other objections to the Formula 
Rate.  Failure to make a Preliminary Challenge with respect to a Material 
Accounting Change in an Annual Update shall act as a bar with respect to that 
Annual Update but shall not bar a subsequent Preliminary Challenge related to a 
subsequent Annual Update to the extent such Material Accounting Change 
affects the subsequent Annual Update.  
e. Preliminary or Formal Challenges related to Material Accounting Changes shall 
be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in Section 3, except that 
Section 3.c shall not apply.  In any proceeding initiated to address a Preliminary 
or Formal Challenge or sua sponte by the FERC, a party or parties (other than 
TrAILCo) seeking to modify the Formula Rate in any respect shall bear the 
burden of proving that the Formula Rate is no longer just and reasonable 
without such modification and that the proposed modification is just, reasonable 
and consistent with the original intent of the Formula Rate and the procedures in 
this Attachment H-18B.  However, in any such proceeding involving the 
question of whether the Formula Rate is no longer just and reasonable without 
modification to reflect a Material Accounting Change and whether the proposed 
modification to reflect the Material Accounting Change is just and reasonable, 
the only issue shall be the effect of the Material Accounting Change.  Those 
portions of the formula not affected by the Material Accounting Change will not 
be at issue. 
Section 4 Resolution of Challenges 
a. If TrAILCo and any interested party(ies) have not resolved any Preliminary 
Challenges to the Annual Update within twenty-one (21) days after the Review 
Period, an interested party shall have an additional twenty-one (21) days (unless 
such period is extended with the written consent of TrAILCo to continue efforts 
to resolve the Preliminary Challenge) to make a Formal Challenge with the 
______________________ 
3 A “Material Accounting Change” is an accounting change that has a material effect on the operation or the results of 
the formula rate.  An accounting change includes a change in accounting principle or an accounting estimate.  See 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154 for further explanation of accounting changes.  The concept of 
materiality is subjective and preserves the right of an affected party to raise the materiality of an accounting change that 
occurs in the future. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-18B - Trans-Allegheny 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 5 
FERC, pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 385.206, which shall be served on TrAILCo by 
electronic service on the date of such filing.  However, there shall be no need to 
make a Formal Challenge or to await conclusion of the time periods in Section 2 
if the FERC already has initiated a proceeding to consuder the Annual Update.  A 
party’s Formal Challenge may not raise any issue that was not the subject of that 
party’s Preliminary Challenge during the applicable Review Period.  
b. Any response by TrAILCo to a Formal Challenge must be submitted to the FERC 
within twenty (20) days of the date of the filing of the Formal Challenge 
(consistent with 18 C.F.R. § 385.206(f)(2007)), and shall be served on the filing 
party(ies) by electronic service on the date of such filing. 
c. Except as provided in Section 2.e, in any proceeding initiated by the FERC 
concerning the Annual Update or in response to a Formal Challenge, TrAILCo 
shall bear the burden of proving that it has reasonably applied the terms of the 
Formula Rate, and the applicable procedures in these formula Rate 
Implementation Protocols, in that year’s Annual Update. 
d. Subject to judicial review of FERC orders, each Annual Update shall become 
final and no longer subject to challenge pursuant to these Annual Review 
Protocols or by any other means by the FERC or any other entity on the later to 
occur of (i) passage of the twenty-one (21) day period (or extended period, if 
applicable) for making a Formal Challenge if no such challenge has been made 
and the FERC has not initiated a proceeding to consider the Annual Update, or (ii) 
a final FERC order issued in response to a Formal Challenge or a proceeding 
initiated by the FERC to consider the Annual Update.  
e. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in 
any way the right to TrAILCo to file unilaterally, pursuant to Section 205 of the 
Federal Power Act and the regulations thereunder, changes to the Formula Rate or 
any of its inputs (including, but not limited to, rate of return and Transmision 
Incentive Mechanisms) or the right of any other party to request such changes 
pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal Power Act and the regulations thereunder. 
f. Subject to Section 2.c above, it is recognized that resolution of Formal Challenges 
concerning Material Accounting Changes may necessitate adjustments to the 
Formula Rate input data for the applicable Annual Update or changes to the rate 
formula to achieve a just and reasonable end result consistent with the intent of 
the Formula Rate. 
Section 5 Changes to Annual Informational Filings 
Any changes to the data inputs, including but not limited to revisions to TrAILCo’s FERC Form 
No. 1, or as the result of any FERC proceeding to consider the Annual Update, or as a result of 
the procedures set forth herein, shall be incorporated into the Formula Rate and the charges 
produced by the Formula Rate (with interest determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 38.19a) 
in the Annual Update for the next effective Rate Period.  This reconciliation mechanism shall 
apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments and any refunds or surcharges, however, actual 
refunds or surcharges (with interest determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 38.19a) for the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-18B - Trans-Allegheny 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER11-2801-000 - Page 6 
then current rate year shall be made in the event that the Formula Rate is replaced by a stated rate 
for TrAILCo. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-19 - Potomac-Appalachian 
Effective Date: 1/10/2024 - Docket #: ER24-804-000 - Page 1 
