[ATTACHMENT L - Part 2 of 2]

Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit and updates such list, as necessary, every ninety 
(90) days; and (c) any third-party contractors provided access to confidential information sign a 
nondisclosure agreement in the form attached to the PJM Operating Agreement as Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 10 before being provided access to any such confidential information. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit may, in the course of discussions with an Authorized 
Person, orally disclose information otherwise required to be maintained in confidence, without 
the need for a prior Information Request. Such oral disclosures shall provide enough information 
to enable the Authorized Person or the Authorized Commission with which that Authorized 
Person is associated to determine whether additional Information Requests are appropriate. The 
Market Monitoring Unit will not make any written or electronic disclosures of confidential 
information to the Authorized Person pursuant to this section I.D.2. In any such discussions, the 
Market Monitoring Unit shall ensure that the individual or individuals receiving such 
confidential information are Authorized Persons as defined herein, orally designate confidential 
information that is disclosed, and refrain from identifying any specific Affected Member whose 
information is disclosed. The Market Monitoring Unit shall also be authorized to assist 
Authorized Persons in interpreting confidential information that is disclosed. The Market 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 5 
Monitoring Unit shall provide any Affected Member with oral notice of any oral disclosure 
immediately, but not later than one (1) Business Day after the oral disclosure. Such oral notice to 
the Affected Member shall include the substance of the oral disclosure, but shall not reveal any 
confidential information of any other Member and must be received by the Affected Member 
before the name of the Affected Member is released to the Authorized Person; provided 
however, disclosure of the identity of the Affected Party must be made to the Authorized 
Commission with which the Authorized Person is associated within two (2) Business Days of the 
initial oral disclosure. 
 
3. As regards Information Requests: 
 
(i) Information Requests to the Office of the Interconnection and/or Market 
Monitoring Unit by an Authorized Commission shall be in writing, which shall include 
electronic communications, addressed to the Market Monitoring Unit, and shall: (a) describe the 
information sought in sufficient detail to allow a response to the Information Request; (b) 
provide a general description of the purpose of the Information Request; (c) state the time period 
for which confidential information is requested; and (d) re-affirm that only Authorized Persons 
shall have access to the confidential information requested. The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
provide an Affected Member with written notice, which shall include electronic communication, 
of an Information Request by an Authorized Commission as soon as possible, but not later than 
two (2) Business Days after the receipt of the Information Request. 
 
(ii) Subject to the provisions of section I.D.3(iii) below, the Market Monitoring Unit 
shall supply confidential information to the Authorized Commission in response to any 
Information Request within five (5) Business Days of the receipt of the Information Request, to 
the extent that the requested confidential information can be made available within such period; 
provided however, that in no event shall confidential information be released prior to the end of 
the fourth (4th) Business Day without the express consent of the Affected Member. To the extent 
that the Market Monitoring Unit cannot reasonably prepare and deliver the requested confidential 
information within such five (5) day period, it shall, within such period, provide the Authorized 
Commission with a written schedule for the provision of such remaining confidential 
information. Upon providing confidential information to the Authorized Commission, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall either provide a copy of the confidential information to the Affected 
Member(s), or provide a listing of the confidential information disclosed; provided, however, 
that the Market Monitoring Unit shall not reveal any Member’s confidential information to any 
other Member. 
 
(iii) Notwithstanding section I.D.3(ii), above, should the Office of the Interconnection, 
the Market Monitoring Unit or an Affected Member object to an Information Request or any 
portion thereof, any of them may, within four (4) Business Days following the Market 
Monitoring Unit’s receipt of the Information Request, request, in writing, a conference with the 
Authorized Commission to resolve differences concerning the scope or timing of the Information 
Request; provided, however, nothing herein shall require the Authorized Commission to 
participate in any conference. Any party to the conference may seek assistance from FERC staff 
in resolution of the dispute or terminate the conference process at any time. Should such 
conference be refused or terminated by any participant or should such conference not resolve the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 6 
dispute, then the Office of the Interconnection, Market Monitoring Unit, or the Affected Member 
may file a complaint with the FERC pursuant to Rule 206 objecting to the Information Request 
within ten (10) Business Days following receipt of written notice from any conference 
participant terminating such conference. Any complaints filed at the FERC objecting to a 
particular Information Request shall be designated by the party as a “fast track” complaint and 
each party shall bear its own costs in connection with such FERC proceeding. The grounds for 
such a complaint shall be limited to the following: (a) the Authorized Commission is no longer 
able to preserve the confidentiality of the requested information due to changed circumstances 
relating to the Authorized Commission’s ability to protect confidential information arising since 
the filing of or rejection of a protest directed to the Authorized Commission’s Certification; (b) 
complying with the Information Request would be unduly burdensome to the complainant, and 
the complainant has made a good faith effort to negotiate limitations in the scope of the 
requested information; or (c) other exceptional circumstances exist such that complying with the 
Information Request would result in harm to the complainant. There shall be a presumption that 
“exceptional circumstances,” as used in the prior sentence, does not include circumstances in 
which an Authorized Commission has requested wholesale market data (or Market Monitoring 
Unit workpapers that support or explain conclusions or analyses) generated in the ordinary 
course and scope of the operations of the Market Monitoring Unit. There shall be a presumption 
that circumstances in which an Authorized Commission has requested personnel files, internal 
emails and internal company memos, analyses and related work product constitute “exceptional 
circumstances” as used in the prior sentence. If no complaint challenging the Information 
Request is filed within the ten (10) day period defined above, the Office of the Interconnection 
and/or Market Monitoring Unit shall utilize its best efforts to respond to the Information Request 
promptly. If a complaint is filed, and the Commission does not act on that complaint within 
ninety (90) days, the complaint shall be deemed denied and the Market Monitoring Unit shall use 
its best efforts to respond to the Information Request promptly. 
 
(iv) Any Authorized Commission may initiate appropriate legal action at the FERC 
within ten (10) Business Days following receipt of information designated as “Confidential,” 
challenging such designation. Any complaints filed at FERC objecting to the designation of 
information as “Confidential” shall be designated by the party as a “fast track” complaint and 
each party shall bear its own costs in connection with such FERC proceeding. The party filing 
such a complaint shall be required to prove that the material disclosed does not merit 
“Confidential” status because it is publicly available from other sources or contains no trade 
secret or other sensitive commercial  information (with “publicly available” not being deemed to 
include unauthorized disclosures of otherwise confidential data). 
 
4. In the event of any breach of confidentiality of information disclosed pursuant to an 
Information Request by an Authorized Commission or Authorized Person: 
 
 (i) The Authorized Commission or Authorized Person shall promptly notify the 
Market Monitoring Unit, who shall, in turn, promptly notify any Affected Member of any 
inadvertent or intentional release, or possible release, of confidential information provided 
pursuant to this section I. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 7 
 (ii) The Office Market Monitoring Unit shall terminate the right of such Authorized 
Commission to receive confidential information under this section I upon written notice to such 
Authorized Commission unless: (i) there was no harm or damage suffered by the Affected 
Member; or (ii) similar good cause is shown. Any appeal of the Market Monitoring Unit’s 
actions under this section I shall be to Commission. An Authorized Commission shall be entitled 
to reestablish its certification as set forth in section I.D.1 by submitting a filing with the 
Commission showing that it has taken appropriate corrective action. If the Commission does not 
act upon an Authorized Commission's recertification filing with sixty (60) days of the date of the 
filing, the recertification shall be deemed approved and the Authorized Commission shall be 
permitted to receive confidential information pursuant to this section. 
 
 (iii) The Office of the Interconnection, the Market Monitoring Unit, and/or the 
Affected Member shall have the right to seek and obtain at least the following types of relief: (a) 
an order from the FERC requiring any breach to cease and preventing any future breaches; (b) 
temporary, preliminary, and/or permanent injunctive relief with respect to any breach; and (c) the 
immediate return of all confidential information to the Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
 (iv) No Authorized Person or Authorized Commission shall have responsibility or 
liability whatsoever under this section for any and all liabilities, losses, damages, demands, fines, 
monetary judgments, penalties, costs and expenses caused by, resulting from, or arising out of or 
in connection with the release of confidential information to persons not authorized to receive it, 
provided that such Authorized Person is an agent, servant, employee or member of an 
Authorized Commission at the time of such unauthorized release. Nothing in this section 
I.D.4(iv) is intended to limit the liability of any person who is not an agent, servant, employee or 
member of an Authorized Commission at the time of such unauthorized release for any and all 
economic losses, damages, demands, fines, monetary judgments, penalties, costs and expenses 
caused by, resulting from, or arising out of or in connection with such unauthorized release. 
 
 (v) Any dispute or conflict requesting the relief in section I.D.4(ii) or I.D.4(iii)(a) 
above, shall be submitted to the FERC for hearing and resolution. Any dispute or conflict 
requesting the relief in section I.D.4(iii)(c) above may be submitted to FERC or any court of 
competent jurisdiction for hearing and resolution. 
 
E. [Reserved] 
 
II. DEVELOPMENT OF INPUTS FOR PROSPECTIVE MITIGATION 
 
A. Offer Price Caps:  
 
1. The Market Monitor or his designee shall advise the Office of the Interconnection 
whether it believes that the cost references, methods and rules included in the Cost Development 
Guidelines are accurate and appropriate, as specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit shall review the incremental costs (defined in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.4.2and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 6.4.2) included in the Offer Price Cap of a generating unit in order to ensure 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 8 
that the Market Seller has correctly applied the Cost Development Guidelines, including its PJM-
approved Fuel Cost Policy, and that the level of the Offer Price Cap is otherwise acceptable. The 
Market Monitoring Unit shall inform PJM if it believes a Market Seller has submitted a cost-
based offer that is not compliant with these criteria and whether it recommends that PJM assess 
the applicable penalty therefor, pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 2. 
 
3. On or before the 21st day of each month, the Market Monitoring Unit shall calculate in 
accordance with the applicable criteria whether each generating unit with an offer cap calculated 
under Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.4.2 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.4.2 is eligible to include an adder based on Frequently 
Mitigated Unit or Associated Unit status, and shall issue a written notice of the applicable adder, 
with a copy to the Office of the Interconnection, to the Market Seller for each unit that meets the 
criteria for Frequently Mitigated Unit or Associated Unit status.  
 
4. Notwithstanding the number of jointly pivotal suppliers in any hour, if the Market 
Monitoring Unit determines that a reasonable level of competition will not exist based on an 
evaluation of all facts and circumstances, it may propose to the Commission the removal of 
offer-capping suspensions otherwise authorized by Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
6.4 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.4.  Such proposals 
shall take effect upon Commission acceptance of the Market Monitoring Unit’s filing.  
 
5.   The Market Monitoring Unit shall review all Fuel Cost Policies submitted by Market 
Sellers for market power concerns.  The Market Monitoring Unit shall communicate its 
determination regarding these criteria to PJM and the Market Seller pursuant to the process 
further described in PJM Manual 15.   
 
B. Minimum Generator Operating Parameters:  
 
1. For the 2014/2015 through 2017/2018 Delivery Years, the Market Monitoring Unit shall 
provide to the Office of the Interconnection a table of default unit class specific parameter limits 
to be known as the “Parameter Limited Schedule Matrix” to be included in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.6(c) and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 6.6(c). The Parameter Limited Schedule Matrix shall include default values on 
a unit-type basis as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.6(c) and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.6(c). The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
review the Parameter Limited Schedule Matrix annually, and, in the event it determines that 
revision is appropriate, shall provide a revised matrix to the Office of the Interconnection by no 
later than December 31 prior to the annual enrollment period. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit shall notify Market Sellers of generating units and the 
Office of the Interconnection no later than April 1 of its determination of market power concerns 
raised regarding each request for a period exception or persistent exception to a value specified 
in the Parameter Limited Schedule Matrix or the parameters defined in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 6.6 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.6 
and the PJM Manuals, provided that the Market Monitoring Unit receives such request by no 
later than February 28.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 9 
 
If, prior to the scheduled termination date, a Market Seller submits a request to modify a 
temporary exception, the Market Monitoring Unit shall review such request using the same 
standard utilized to evaluate period exception and persistent exception requests, and shall 
provide its determination of whether the request raises market power concerns, and, if so, any 
modifications that would alleviate those concerns, to the Market Seller, with a copy to Office of 
the Interconnection, by no later than 15 Business Days from the date of the modification request. 
 
3. When a Market Seller notifies the Market Monitoring Unit of a material change to the 
facts relied upon by the Market Monitoring Unit and/or the Office of the Interconnection to 
support a parameter limited schedule period or persistent exception, the Market Monitoring Unit 
shall make a determination, and provide written notification to the Office of the Interconnection 
and the Market Seller, of any change to its determination regarding the exemption request, based 
on the material change in facts, by no later than 15 Business Days after receipt of such notice.  
  
4. The Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Office of the Interconnection of any risk 
premium to which it and a Market Seller owning or operating nuclear generation resource agree 
or its determination if agreement is not obtained. If a Market Seller submits a risk premium for 
its nuclear generation resource that is inconsistent with its agreement or inconsistent with the 
Market Monitoring Unit’s determination regarding such risk premium, the Market Monitoring 
Unit may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of its concerns pursuant to Tariff, 
Attachment M. 
 
C.   RPM Must-Offer Requirement:  
 
1. The Market Monitoring Unit shall maintain, post on its website and provide to the Office 
of the Interconnection prior to each RPM Auction (updated, as necessary, on at least a quarterly 
basis), a list of Existing Generation Capacity Resources located in the PJM Region that are 
subject to the RPM must-offer requirement set forth in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6.   
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit shall evaluate requests submitted by Capacity Market 
Sellers for a determination  that a Generation Capacity Resource, or any portion thereof, be 
removed from Capacity Resource status or exempted from status as a Generation Capacity 
Resource subject to section II.C.1 above and inform both the Capacity Market Seller and the 
Office of the Interconnection of such determination in writing by no later ninety (90) days prior 
to the commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction.  A Generation 
Capacity Resource located in the PJM Region shall not be removed from Capacity Resource 
status to the extent the resource is committed to service of PJM loads as a result of an RPM 
Auction, FRR Capacity Plan, Locational UCAP transaction and/or by designation as a 
replacement resource under Tariff, Attachment DD.  
 
3. Through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year, the Market Monitoring Unit shall evaluate the 
data and documentation provided to it by a potential Capacity Market Seller to establish the 
EFORd to be included in a Sell Offer applicable to each resource pursuant to Tariff, Attachment 
DD, section 6.6(b).  If a Capacity Market Seller timely submits a request for an alternative 
maximum level of EFORd that may be used in a Sell Offer for RPM Auctions held prior to the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 10 
date on which the final EFORds used for a Delivery Year are posted, the Market Monitoring 
Unit shall attempt to reach agreement with the Capacity Market Seller on the alternate maximum 
level of the EFORd by no later than ninety (90) days prior to the commencement of the offer 
period for the Base Residual Auction for the applicable Delivery Year.  By no later than ninety 
(90) days prior to the commencement of the offer period for the Base Residual Auction for the 
applicable Delivery Year, the Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Office of the 
Interconnection in writing, notifying the Capacity Market Seller by copy of the same, of any 
alternative maximum EFORd to which it and the Capacity Market Seller agree or its 
determination of the alternative maximum EFORd if agreement is not obtained.   
 
4. The Market Monitoring Unit shall consider the documentation provided to it by a 
potential Capacity Market Seller pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6 of Attachment 
DD, and determine whether a resource owned or controlled by such Capacity Market Seller 
meets the criteria to qualify for an exception to the RPM must-offer requirement because the 
resource (i) is reasonably expected to be physically unable to participate in the relevant auction; 
(ii) has a financially and physically firm commitment to an external sale of its capacity; or (iii) 
was interconnected to the Transmission System as an Energy Resource and not subsequently 
converted to a Capacity Resource.  The Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Capacity Market 
Seller and the Office of the Interconnection of its determination by no later than ninety (90) days 
prior to the commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction. 
 
In order to establish that a resource is reasonably expected to be physically unable to participate 
in the relevant auction as set forth in (i) above, the Capacity Market Seller must demonstrate 
that:  
 
A. It has a documented plan in place to retire the resource prior to or during the 
Delivery Year, and has submitted a notice of Deactivation to the Office of the Interconnection 
consistent with Tariff, Part V, section 113.1, without regard to whether the Office of the 
Interconnection has requested the Capacity Market Seller to continue to operate the resource 
beyond its desired deactivation date in accordance with Tariff, Part V, section 113.2 for the 
purpose of maintaining the reliability of the PJM Transmission System and the Capacity Market 
Seller has agreed to do so;  
 
B. Significant physical operational restrictions cause long term or permanent 
changes to the installed capacity value of the resource, or the resource is under major repair that 
will extend into the applicable Delivery Year, that will result in the imposition of RPM 
performance penalties pursuant to  Tariff, Attachment DD;  
 
C. The Capacity Market Seller is involved in an ongoing regulatory proceeding (e.g. 
– regarding potential environmental restrictions) specific to the resource and has received an 
order, decision, final rule, opinion or other final directive from the regulatory authority that will 
result in the retirement of the resource; or, 
 
D. A resource considered an Existing Generating Capacity Resource because it 
cleared an RPM Auction for a Delivery Year prior to the Delivery Year of the relevant auction, 
but which is not yet in service, is unable to achieve full commercial operation prior to the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 11 
Delivery Year of the relevant auction.  The Capacity Market Seller must submit to the Office of 
the Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit a written sworn, notarized statement of a 
corporate officer certifying that the resource will not be in full commercial operation prior to the 
referenced Delivery Year. 
 
5. If a Capacity Market Seller submits for the portion of a Generation Capacity Resource 
that it owns or controls, and the Office of Interconnection accepts, a Sell Offer (i) at a level of 
installed capacity that the Market Monitoring Unit believes is inconsistent with the level 
established under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.6.6, (ii) at a level of installed capacity 
inconsistent with its determination of eligibility for an exception listed in section II.C.4 above, or 
(iii) through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year, a maximum EFORd that the Market Monitoring Unit 
believes is inconsistent with the maximum level determined under section II.C.3 of this 
Appendix, the Market Monitoring Unit may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of 
its concerns and/or request a determination from the Commission that would require the 
Generation Capacity Resource to submit a new or revised Sell Offer, notwithstanding any 
determination to the contrary made under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6. 
 
 The Market Monitoring Unit shall also consider the documentation provided by the 
Capacity Market Seller pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6, for generation resources 
for which the Office of the Interconnection has not approved an exception to the RPM must-offer 
requirement as set forth in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6(g), to determine whether the 
Capacity Market Seller’s failure to offer part or all of one or more generation resources into an 
RPM Auction would result in an increase of greater than five percent in any Zonal Capacity 
Price determined through such auction as required by Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6(i), and 
shall inform both the Capacity Market Seller and the Office of the Interconnection of its 
determination by no later than two (2) Business Days after the close of the offer period for the 
applicable RPM Auction.  
 
D. Unit Specific Minimum Sell Offers: 
 
1. If a Capacity Market Seller timely submits an exception request, with all of the required 
documentation as specified in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14(h-2), the Market Monitoring 
Unit shall review the request and documentation and shall provide in writing to the Capacity 
Market Seller and the Office of the Interconnection by no later than ninety (90) days prior the 
commencement of the offer period for the RPM Auction in which it seeks to submit its Sell Offer 
(a) its determination whether the level of the proposed Sell Offer raises market power concerns, 
and (b) if so it shall calculate and provide to such Capacity Market Seller a minimum Sell offer 
Based on the data and documentation received.   
 
2. All data submitted to the Office of the Interconnection or the Market Monitoring Unit by 
a Market Participant is subject to verification by the Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
E. Market Seller Offer Caps:  
 
1. Based on the data and calculations submitted by the Capacity Market Sellers for each 
Existing Generation Capacity Resource and the formulas specified in Tariff, Attachment DD, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 12 
section 6.7(d), the Market Monitoring Unit shall calculate the Market Seller Offer Cap for each 
such resource and provide it to the Capacity Market Seller and the Office of the Interconnection 
by no later than ninety (90) days before the commencement of the offer period for the applicable 
RPM Auction. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit must attempt to reach agreement with the Capacity Market 
Seller on the appropriate level of the Market Seller Offer Cap by no later than ninety (90) days 
prior to the commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction.  If such 
agreement cannot be reached, then the Market Monitoring Unit shall inform the Capacity Market 
Seller and the Office of the Interconnection of its determination of the appropriate level of the 
Market Seller Offer Cap by no later than ninety (90) days prior to the commencement of the 
offer period for the applicable RPM Auction, and the Market Monitoring Unit may pursue any 
action available to it under Attachment M.  
 
F. Mitigation of Offers from Planned Generation Capacity Resources:   
 
Pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.5, the Market Monitoring Unit shall evaluate Sell 
Offers for Planned Generation Capacity Resources to determine whether market power 
mitigation should be applied and notify in writing each Capacity Market Seller whose Sell Offer 
has been determined to be non-competitive and subject to mitigation, with a copy to the Office of 
the Interconnection, by no later than one (1) Business Day after the close of the offer period for 
the applicable RPM Auction.  
 
G. Data Submission:   
 
Pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.7, the Market Monitoring Unit may request 
additional information from any potential auction participant as deemed necessary by the Market 
Monitoring Unit, including, without limitation, additional cost data on resources in a class that is 
not otherwise expected to include the marginal price setting resource.  All data submitted to the 
Office of the Interconnection or the Market Monitoring Unit by a Market Participant is subject to 
verification by the Market Monitoring Unit.  
 
H. Determination of Default Avoidable Cost Rates:  
 
1. The Market Monitoring Unit shall conduct an annual review of the table of default 
Avoidable Cost Rates included in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.7(c) and calculated on the 
bases set forth therein, and determine whether the values included therein need to be updated.  If 
the Market Monitoring Unit determines that the Avoidable Cost Rates need to be updated, it shall 
provide to the Office of the Interconnection updated values or notice of its determination that 
updated values are not needed by no later than September 30th of each year. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit shall indicate in its posted reports on RPM performance the 
number of Generation Capacity Resources and megawatts per LDA that use the retirement 
default Avoidable Cost Rates. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 13 
3. If a Capacity Market Seller does not elect to use a default Avoidable Cost Rate and has 
timely provided to the Market Monitoring Unit its request to apply a unit-specific Avoidable 
Cost Rate, along with the data described in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.7, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall calculate the Avoidable Cost Rate and provide a unit-specific value to the 
Capacity Market Seller for each such resource, and notify the Capacity Market Seller and the 
Office of the Interconnection in writing by no later than ninety (90) days prior to the 
commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction whether it agrees that the 
unit-specific Avoidable Cost Rate is acceptable.  The Capacity Market Seller and Office of the 
Interconnection’s deadlines relating to the submittal and acceptance of a request for a unit-
specific Avoidable Cost Rate are delineated in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.7(d).  
 
I. Determination of PJM Market Revenues:   
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall calculate the Projected PJM Market Revenues for any 
Generation Capacity Resource to which the Avoidable Cost Rate is applied pursuant to Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 6.8(d), and notify the Capacity Market Seller and the Office of the 
Interconnection of its determination in writing by no later than ninety (90) days prior to the 
commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction. 
 
J. Determination of Opportunity Costs:   
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall review and verify the documentation of prices available to 
Existing Generation Capacity Resources in markets external to PJM and proposed for inclusion 
in Opportunity Costs pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.7(d)(ii).  The Market 
Monitoring Unit shall notify, in writing, such Generation Capacity Resource and the Office of 
the Interconnection if it is dissatisfied with the documentation provided and whether it objects to 
the inclusion of such Opportunity Costs in a Market Seller Offer by no later than ninety (90) 
days prior to the commencement of the offer period for the applicable RPM Auction.  If such 
Generation Capacity Resource submits a Market Seller Offer that includes Opportunity Costs 
that have not been documented and verified to the Market Monitoring Unit’s satisfaction, then 
the Market Monitoring Unit may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of its concerns 
and request a determination that would require the Generation Capacity Resource to remove 
them.  
 
III. BLACKSTART SERVICE 
 
A. Upon the submission by a Black Start Unit owner of a request for Black Start Service 
revenue requirements and changes to the Black Start Service revenue requirements for the Black 
Start Unit, the Black Start Unit owner and the Market Monitoring Unit shall attempt to agree to 
values on the level of each component included in the Black Start Service revenue requirements 
by no later than May 14 of each year.  The Market Monitoring Unit shall calculate the revenue 
requirement for each Black Start Unit and provide its calculation to the Office of the 
Interconnection by no later than May 14 of each year. 
 
B. Pursuant to the terms of Tariff, Schedule 6A and the PJM Manuals, the Market 
Monitoring Unit will analyze any requested generator black start cost changes on an annual basis 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 14 
and shall notify the Office of the Interconnection of any costs to which it and the Black Start 
Unit owner have agreed or the Market Monitoring Unit’s determination regarding any cost 
components to which agreement has not been obtained. If a Black Start Unit owner includes a 
cost component inconsistent with its agreement or inconsistent with the Market Monitoring 
Unit’s determination regarding such cost component, and the Office of the Interconnection 
accepts the Black Start Service revenue requirements submitted by the Black Start Unit owner, 
the Market Monitoring Unit may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of its concerns 
and request a determination that would require the Black Start Service generator to utilize the 
values determined by the Market Monitoring Unit or the Office of the Interconnection or such 
other values as determined by the Commission. 
 
IV. DEACTIVATION RATES 
 
1. Upon receipt of a notice to deactivate a generating unit under Tariff, Part V from the 
Office of the Interconnection forwarded pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall analyze the effects of the proposed deactivation with regard to potential 
market power issues and shall notify the Office of the Interconnection and the generator owner 
(or, if applicable, its designated agent) if a market power issue has been identified. The Market 
Monitoring Unit shall provide such notice by the following date: (a) May 31 of the current 
calendar year, if the Transmission Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part 
V, section 113.1 between January 1 and March 31; (b) August 31 of the current calendar year, if 
the Transmission Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 
between April 1 and June 30; (c) November 30 of the current calendar year, if the Transmission 
Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 between July 1 and 
September 30; or (d) February 28 of the following calendar year, if the Transmission Provider 
received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 between October 1 and 
December 31. Such notice shall include the specific market power impact resulting from the 
proposed deactivation of the generating unit, as well as an initial assessment of any steps that 
could be taken to mitigate the market power impact. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit and the generating unit owner shall attempt to come to 
agreement on the level of each component included in the Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit. 
In the case of cost of service filing submitted to the Commission in alternative to the 
Deactivation Cost Credit, the Market Monitoring Unit shall indicate to the generating unit owner 
in advance of filing its views regarding the proposed method or cost components of recovery. 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Office of the Interconnection of any costs to which 
it and the generating unit owner have agreed or the Market Monitoring Unit’s determination 
regarding any cost components to which agreement has not been obtained. If a generating unit 
owner includes a cost component inconsistent with its agreement or inconsistent with the Market 
Monitoring Unit’s determination regarding such cost components, the Market Monitoring Unit 
may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of its concerns and seek a determination that 
would require the Generating unit to include an appropriate cost component.  This provision is 
duplicated in Tariff, Part V, section 114 and Tariff, Part V, section 119.    
 
V. OPPORTUNITY COST CALCULATION 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 15 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall review requests for opportunity cost compensation under 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.2.3(f-3) and Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 3.2.3B(h) and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2.3(f-
3) and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2. 
3B(h), discuss with the Office of the Interconnection and individual Market Sellers the amount 
of compensation, and file exercise its powers to inform  Commission staff of its concerns and 
request a determination of compensation as provided by such sections. These requirements are 
duplicated in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.2.3(f-3) and Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 3.2.3B(h) and the paralelle provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 3.2.3(f-3) and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2.3B9H). 
 
VI. FTR FORFEITURE RULE  
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall calculate Transmission Congestion Credits as required under 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.1(b) and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
5.2.1(b), including the determination of the identity of the Effective FTR Holder and an 
evaluation of the overall benefits accrued by an entity or affiliated entities trading in FTRs and 
Virtual Transactions in the Day-ahead Energy Market, and provide such calculations to the 
Office of the Interconnection. Nothing in this section shall preclude the Market Monitoring Unit 
from action to recover inappropriate benefits from the subject activity if the amount forfeited is 
less than the benefit derived by the Effective FTR Holder. If the Office of the Interconnection 
imposes a forfeiture of the Transmission Congestion Credit in an amount that the Market 
Monitoring Unit disagrees with, then it may exercise its powers to inform Commission staff of 
its concerns and request an adjustment. 
 
VII. FORCED OUTAGE RULE 
 
1. The Market Monitoring Unit shall observe offers submitted in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market to determine whether  all or part of a generating unit’s capacity (MW) is designated as 
Maximum Emergency and (i) such offer in the Real-time Energy Market designates a smaller 
amount of capacity from that unit as Maximum Emergency for the same time period, and (ii) 
there is no physical reason to designate a larger amount of capacity as Maximum Emergency in 
the offer in the Day-ahead Energy Market than in the Real-time Energy Market, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall notify the Office of Interconnection. 
 
2. If the Market Monitoring Unit observes that (i) an offer submitted in the Day-ahead 
Energy market designates all or part of capacity (MW) of a Generating unit as economic 
maximum that is less than the economic maximum designated in the offer in the Real-time 
Energy Market, and (ii) there is no physical reason to designate a lower economic maximum in 
the offer in the Day-ahead Energy Market than in the offer in the Real-time Energy Market, the 
Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Office of Interconnection. 
 
VIII. DATA COLLECTION AND VERIFICATION  
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall gather and keep confidential detailed data on the procurement 
and usage of fuel to produce electric power transmitted in the PJM Region in order to assist the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 16 
performance of its duties under Tariff, Attachment M. To achieve this objective, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall maintain on its website a mechanism that allows Members to conveniently 
and confidentially submit such data and develop a manual in consultation with stakeholders that 
describes the nature of and procedure for collecting data. Members of PJM owning a Generating 
unit that is located in the PJM Region (including Dynamic Transfer units), or is included in a 
PJM Black Start Service plan, committed as a Generation Capacity Resource for the current or 
future Delivery Year, or otherwise subject to a commitment to provide service to PJM, shall 
provide data to the Market Monitoring Unit.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M-1 (FirstEnergy Zones) 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 1 
