[ATTACHMENT CC - Part 6 of 7]

Locational UCAP, but for which the Performance Assessment Interval occurs outside the 
resource’s capacity obligation period; and 
 
All Market Participants Bonus Performance is the sum of the results of calculating 
Formula 1 of this subsection (g) for all Market Participants that have Bonus Performance 
during such Performance Assessment Interval. 
 
 (h) The provisions of this section 10A shall apply during the 2016/2017 Delivery 
Year, provided that: 
 
(i) Non-Performance Charges shall be determined solely for and assessed 
solely on, Capacity Performance Resources committed for such Delivery 
Year;  
(ii) The Non-Performance Charge shall be 0.5 times the Non-Performance 
Charge calculated under subsection (e) hereof; and 
(iii) The Non-Performance Charge Limit for a Delivery Year shall be 0.75 
times Net Cost of New Entry times the megawatts of Unforced Capacity 
committed by such resource times 365. 
 
(i) The provisions of this section 10A shall apply during the 2017/2018 Delivery 
Year, provided that: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.10A CHARGES FOR NON-PERFORMANCE AND 
CREDI 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 7 
 
(i) Non-Performance Charges shall be determined solely for, and assessed 
solely on, Capacity Performance Resources committed for such Delivery 
Year;  
(ii) The Non-Performance Charge shall be 0.6 times the Non-Performance 
Charge calculated under subsection (e) hereof; and 
(iii) The Non-Performance Charge Limit for a Delivery Year shall be 0.9 times 
Net Cost of New Entry times the megawatts of Unforced Capacity 
committed by such resource times 365.  
  
(j) The Office of the Interconnection shall bill charges and credits for performance during 
Performance Assessment Intervals within three calendar months after the calendar month that 
included such Performance Assessment Intervals, provided, for any Non-Performance Charge, 
the amount shall be divided by the number of months remaining in the Delivery Year for which 
no invoice has been issued, and the resulting amount shall be invoiced each such remaining 
month in the Delivery Year.  Notwithstanding, if there are less than six months remaining in the 
current Delivery Year for which no invoice has been issued, the Office of the Interconnection 
may, with prior notice to PJM Members, allocate in equal amounts any Non-Performance Charge 
in the remaining monthly bills for the current Delivery Year plus up to six monthly bills into the 
following Delivery Year for all Capacity Market Sellers that incur such a Non-Performance 
Charge (but in no event shall the total Non-Performance Charge be divided in more than nine 
monthly bills).  Provided, for any Non-Performance Charges associated with Performance 
Assessment Intervals from December 23, 2022 and December 24, 2022, a Capacity Market 
Seller may elect, by providing notice to the Office of Interconnection by March 17, 2023, to 
divide the total amount of Non-Performance Charges by either (i) the number of remaining 
monthly bills in the current Delivery Year (i.e., 3 bills) or (ii) the number of remaining monthly 
bills in the current Delivery Year plus six additional monthly bills into the following Delivery 
Year (i.e., 9 bills); provided further, however, that for an election under subsection (ii) above, the 
monthly Non-Performance Charge shall be levelized to include interest for the six month period 
following the current Delivery Year, such interest amount being determined at the electric 
interest rate established by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission at the time of such 
election.  All interest collected in accordance with this provision shall be allocated to the total 
pool of bonus performance payments and distributed in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, 
section 10A(g). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.11. [Reserved] 
Effective Date: 11/18/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3469-000 - Page 1 
[RESERVED] 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.11A LOAD MANAGEMENT TEST 
FAILURE CHARGE 
Effective Date: 12/12/2023 - Docket #: ER24-99-000 - Page 1 
11A DEMAND RESOURCES TEST FAILURE CHARGE 
 
 a)  Capacity Market Sellers that commit Demand Resources may be charged to 
the extent their committed resources fail performance tests, as set forth herein.  
 
 b)  
 
(i) [Reserved] 
(ii) [Reserved] 
(iii) [Reserved] 
 
A. Through the 2023/2024 Delivery Years, for Annual Demand 
Resources: if an Annual Demand Resource registration is not 
dispatched by the Office of the Interconnection for a Load 
Management event in a Delivery Year, then the registration 
committed by a Capacity Market Seller in a zone shall be 
tested as described below in section iii(c), for a two-hour 
period between the hours of 11:00 EPT and 18:00 EPT of a 
non-NERC holiday weekday during June through October or 
November through March of the relevant Delivery Year, where 
date and time are selected by the Office of the Interconnection 
and notice is provided consistent with the procedure described 
below in section iii(d).   If an Annual Demand Resource 
registration is dispatched by the Office of the Interconnection 
for a Load Management event during the Delivery Year, then 
no test will be required. 
 
A-1.  Effective with the 2024/2025 Delivery Year and subsequent 
Delivery Years, for Annual Demand Resources: if an Annual 
Demand Resource registration is not dispatched by the Office 
of the Interconnection for a Load Management event in a 
Delivery Year and assessed for performance during 
Performance Assessment Intervals, then the registration 
committed by a Capacity Market Seller in a zone shall be 
tested as described below in section iii(c), for a two-hour 
period between the hours of 11:00 EPT and 18:00 EPT of a 
non-NERC holiday weekday during June through October or 
November through March of the relevant Delivery Year, where 
date and time are selected by the Office of the Interconnection 
and notice is provided consistent with the procedure described 
below in section iii(d). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a 
Capacity Market Seller may elect to utilize performance data 
from a Load Management event in the Delivery Year that was 
not assessed for performance during Performance Assessment 
Intervals to be considered in the annual Demand Resource test 
requirement , as long as the event is at least 30 minutes of a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.11A LOAD MANAGEMENT TEST 
FAILURE CHARGE 
Effective Date: 12/12/2023 - Docket #: ER24-99-000 - Page 2 
clock hour. If an Annual Demand Resource registration is 
dispatched by the Office of the Interconnection for a Load 
Management event during the Delivery Year, and assessed for 
performance during Performance Assessment Intervals, then no 
test will be required. 
 
B. Through the 2023/2024 Delivery Year, for Summer-Period 
Demand Resources: if a Summer-Period Demand Resource 
registration is not dispatched by the Office of the 
Interconnection for a Load Management event during June 
through October or the following May of the Delivery Year, 
then the registration committed by a Capacity Market Seller 
must demonstrate that it was tested as described below in 
section iii(c), for a two-hour period between the hours of 11:00 
EPT and 18:00 EPT of a non-NERC holiday weekday, during 
June through October of the relevant Delivery Year, where date 
and time are selected by the Office of the Interconnection and 
notice is provided consistent with the procedure described 
below. 
 
B-1. Effective with the 2024/2025 Delivery Year and subsequent 
Delivery Years, for Summer-Period Demand Resources: if a 
Summer Period Demand Resource registration is not 
dispatched and assessed for performance during Performance 
Assessment Intervals, by the Office of the Interconnection for a 
Load Management event during June through October or the 
following May of the Delivery Year, then the registration 
committed by a Capacity Market Seller must demonstrate that 
it was tested as described below in section iii(c), for a two-hour 
period between the hours of 11:00 EPT and 18:00 EPT of a 
non-NERC holiday weekday, during June through October of 
the relevant Delivery Year, where date and time are selected by 
the Office of the Interconnection and notice is provided 
consistent with the procedure described below. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Capacity Market Seller may 
elect to utilize performance data from a Load Management 
event in the Delivery Year that was not assessed for 
performance during Performance Assessment Intervals to be 
considered in the annual Demand Resource test requirement, as 
long as the event is at least 30 minutes of a clock hour and the 
Load Management event occurred in the summer. 
 
C. All registrations in a zone will be tested simultaneously for two 
hours for each product. Registration performance will be 
calculated as the two hour average reduction. The Office of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.11A LOAD MANAGEMENT TEST 
FAILURE CHARGE 
Effective Date: 12/12/2023 - Docket #: ER24-99-000 - Page 3 
Interconnection may, at its discretion, cancel a test and retest 
on an event day to ensure system reliability.  
 
If less than 25 percent (by megawatts) of a Curtailment Service 
Provider’s total Demand Resources in a zone fail the test, the 
Curtailment Service Provider may conduct re-tests limited to 
all registrations that failed to meet their seasonal nominated 
ICAP in the prior test, provided that such re-test(s) must be 
during the same season period (except if test was conducted in 
March in which case retest can be conducted in May), at the 
same time of day and under approximately the same weather 
conditions as the prior test, and provided further that all 
affiliated registrations must test simultaneously, where 
affiliated means registrations that have any ability to shift load 
and are owned or controlled by the same entity.  If less than 25 
percent of resources fail the test and the Curtailment Service 
Provider chooses to conduct a retest, the Curtailment Service 
Provider may elect to maintain the performance compliance 
result for the registration(s) that achieved during the test if 
Curtailment Service Provider: (1) notifies the Office of the 
Interconnection 48 hours prior to the retest under this election; 
and (2) the Curtailment Service Provider retests affiliated 
registrations under this election as set forth in the PJM Manual. 
 
If 25 percent or more (by megawatts) of a Curtailment Service 
Provider’s Demand Resources fail the test, the Curtailment 
Service Provider may request the Office of Interconnection to 
schedule a one-time retest limited to all registrations that failed 
to meet their seasonal nominated ICAP in the prior test, 
provided that all affiliated registrations must test 
simultaneously. Affiliated means registrations that have any 
ability to shift load and are owned or controlled by the same 
entity. The request must be made before the 46th day after the 
test.  The Office of the Interconnection will select the date and 
time of the retest during the same season period (except if test 
was conducted in March in which case retest may be conducted 
in May) and notice is provided consistent with the procedure 
described below. 
 
D. Notification of the initial Office of the Interconnection 
scheduled test will be provided based on the following 
procedure.  The Office of Interconnection shall schedule, on an 
alternating basis, one test during June through October or 
November through March for each Delivery Year that a test is 
required.  On the first business day of a week, PJM will 
provide notice of all zones to be tested during the following 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.11A LOAD MANAGEMENT TEST 
FAILURE CHARGE 
Effective Date: 12/12/2023 - Docket #: ER24-99-000 - Page 4 
two week test window. The test window opens the first 
business day of the week following the notice. By 10:00 EPT 
the day before the test, the Office of the Interconnection will 
post on its website the test date. The Office of the 
Interconnection will also notify the Curtailment Service 
Providers of the test date. On the test date, Curtailment Service 
Providers will be notified of start time of test through the same 
notification protocol used for an event and as described in the 
PJM Manuals. 
 
Notification of any scheduled retest by the Office of the 
Interconnection will be provided based on the following 
procedure. By 10:00 EPT the day before the retest, the Office 
of the Interconnection will post the retest date on its website. 
PJM will also notify the Curtailment Service Providers the 
retest date. On the retest date, Curtailment Service Providers 
will be notified of start time of retest through the same 
notification protocol used for an event and as described in the 
PJM Manuals. 
 
 
 c)  a Capacity Market Seller that committed Demand Resources shall be assessed 
a Demand Resources Test Failure Charge equal to the net capability testing shortfall for such 
products tested in a Zone during such test in the aggregate of all of such Seller’s Demand 
Resources tested in such Zone times the Demand Resources Test Failure Charge Rate.  The 
net capability testing shortfall in such Zone shall be the following megawatt quantity, 
converted to an Unforced Capacity basis using the applicable Forecast Pool Requirement 
prior to 2025/2026 Delivery Year and applicable ELCC Class Rating beginning with the 
2025/2026 Delivery Year:  (i) the summer daily average of the megawatts of load reduction 
capability committed by such seller in such Zone for such product(s) tested minus (ii) the 
megawatts of load reduction actually provided by all such Demand Resources in such Zone 
during such test.  The net capability testing shortfall in such Zone for such product(s) tested 
shall be reduced by the Curtailment Service Provider’s summer daily average of the Capacity 
Resource deficiency shortfalls, determined pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 8, in 
such Zone for all of the Curtailment Service Provider’s committed Demand Resources that 
are of the same product(s) tested. 
 
 d)  the Demand Resources Test Failure Charge Rate shall equal such Seller’s 
Weighted Daily Revenue Rate in such Zone for the product(s) tested plus the greater of (0.20 
times the Weighted Daily Revenue Rate in such Zone for the product(s) tested or $20/MW-
day).  The Daily Demand Resources Test Failure Charge in a zone for the product(s) tested 
shall be equal to the net capability testing shortfall in such Zone for such product(s) tested 
times the Demand Resources Test Failure Charge Rate.  Such charge shall be assessed daily 
and charged monthly (or otherwise in accordance with customary PJM billing practices in 
effect at the time); provided, however, that a lump sum payment may be required to reflect 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.11A LOAD MANAGEMENT TEST 
FAILURE CHARGE 
Effective Date: 12/12/2023 - Docket #: ER24-99-000 - Page 5 
amounts due, as a result of a test failure, from the start of the Delivery Year to the day that 
charges are reflected in regular billing. 
 
 e)  revenues collected from assessment of Demand Resources Test Failure 
Charges shall be distributed to Load Serving Entities that were charged a Locational 
Reliability Charge for the Delivery Year for which the Demand Resources Test Failure 
Charge was  assessed, pro-rata based on such Load Serving Entities’ Daily Unforced 
Capacity Obligations. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.11B [Reserved] 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 1 
11B [Reserved for Future Use] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.12. QUALIFYING TRANSMISSION UPGRADE COMPL 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 1 
12. QUALIFYING TRANSMISSION UPGRADE COMPLIANCE PENALTY 
CHARGE 
 
If a Qualifying Transmission Upgrade forming the basis of a Sell Offer that cleared in the Base 
Residual Auction for a Delivery Year is not in service at the commencement of such Delivery 
Year, and the Capacity Market Seller does not obtain replacement Capacity Resources in the 
LDA for which such upgrade was to increase CETL, such seller shall pay a compliance penalty 
charge for each day such upgrade is delayed during such Delivery Year equal to the megawatt 
quantity of Import Capability cleared in the Base Residual Auction based on such upgrade, 
multiplied by the greater of: (i) 1.2 times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price of the LDA into 
which the Qualifying Transmission Upgrade is cleared, in $/MW-day; or (ii) the Net Cost of 
New Entry; provided, however, that a resource that is subject to a charge under this section that 
is also subject to a charge under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 10A hereof for a Performance 
Shortfall during one or more Performance Assessment Intervals occurring during the period of 
resource delay addressed by this section shall be assessed a charge equal to the greater of the 
charge determined under this section and the charge determined under Tariff, Attachment DD, 
section 10A, but shall not be assessed a charge under both this section and Tariff, Attachment 
DD, section 10A for such simultaneous occurrence of a resource delay and Performance 
Shortfall.  The revenue collected from the assessment of Qualifying Transmission Upgrade 
Compliance Penalty Charges shall be distributed on a pro-rata basis to all LSEs that were 
charged a Locational Reliability Charge for the day for which such charge was assessed.  Such 
revenues shall be distributed on a pro-rata basis to such LSEs based on their Daily Unforced 
Capacity Obligations. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.13. EMERGENCY PROCEDURE CHARGE 
Effective Date: 5/28/2013 - Docket #: ER13-1166-000 - Page 1 
13. EMERGENCY PROCEDURE CHARGE 
 
13.1 Application of the Emergency Procedure Charge 
 
Following an Emergency, the compliance during the period of such Emergency with the 
instructions of the Office of the Interconnection of each Capacity Market Seller that committed 
Capacity Resources and each Locational UCAP Seller that sold Locational UCAP for such 
period shall be evaluated as recommended by the Markets and Reliability Committee and 
directed by the PJM Board.  If, based on such evaluation, it is determined that a Capacity Market 
Seller or Locational UCAP Seller refused to comply with, or otherwise failed to employ its best 
efforts to comply with, the instructions of the Office of the Interconnection to implement PJM 
emergency procedures, then such Capacity Market Seller or Locational UCAP Seller shall pay an 
Emergency Procedure Charge. 
 
13.2 Emergency Procedure Charge 
 
The Emergency Procedure Charge shall equal the number of days in the Delivery Year 
multiplied by the Daily Deficiency Rate for such Delivery Year times each megawatt of a 
Demand Resource that was not implemented as directed, and each megawatt of a Generation 
Capacity Resource that was not made available as directed despite being capable of producing 
energy at the time, and that is deliverable to the PJM Region in the case of a Generation Capacity 
Resource located outside the PJM Region. 
 
13.3 Allocation of Revenue from Emergency Procedure Charges 
 
The revenue collected from assessment of an Emergency Procedure Charge shall be distributed 
on a pro-rata basis to all LSEs that were charged a Locational Reliability Charge for the day for 
which the Emergency Procedure Charge was assessed.  The charges shall be allocated on a pro-
rata basis to all such LSEs based on their Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation.   
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.14. CONVERSION OF CAPACITY CREDITS FROM P 
Effective Date: 6/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 1 
14. Reserved. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.15. COORDINATION WITH ECONOMIC PLANNING P 
Effective Date: 12/21/2020 - Docket #: ER21-162-000 - Page 1 
15. COORDINATION WITH ECONOMIC PLANNING PROCESS 
 
Prior to the posting of the planning parameters for each Base Residual Auction, if the Office of 
the Interconnection determines that the Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit is less than 1.15 
times the Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective for any LDA, the Office of the 
Interconnection will include a transmission upgrade in the RTEP as soon as practicable, if all of 
the following criteria is satisfied: 
 
• The transmission upgrade(s) will result in a Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit that 
exceeds 1.15 times the Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective for the LDA; and  
 
• The transmission upgrade(s) is/are expected to be in-service prior to June 1 of the 
Delivery Year for which the Base Residual Auction is being conducted; and 
 
• The transmission upgrade cost is expected to be less than $5 million; and 
 
• There are no Merchant Network Upgrades that have or are expected to have an 
executed Facilities Study Agreement by 45 days prior to the Base Residual Auction 
that are designed to resolve the same constraint for which the RTEP upgrade is 
designed to resolve. 
 
The annual costs of such upgrade shall be allocated as specified in Tariff, Schedule 12.  
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall include in its planning period parameters report, posted 
on its website in February of each year, the following information for the transmission upgrades 
it identifies to address easily resolvable constraints under this section 15, if any: (1) a description 
of each easily resolvable constraint; (2) the limiting transmission elements responsible for each 
such easily resolvable constraint; (3) an explanation of why the transmission elements 
responsible for each such easily resolvable constraint identified are limiting; (4) a list of the 
easily resolvable constraint transmission upgrades undertaken as well as the cost, location, and 
the entity(ies) undertaking each such upgrade; and (5) the impact of these projects on that 
Delivery Year’s planning parameters. 
 
Following each Base Residual Auction, the Office of the Interconnection shall review each LDA 
that has a Locational Price Adder to determine if Planned Generation Capacity Resources, 
Planned Demand Resources, or Qualifying Transmission Upgrades submitted Sell Offers that 
cleared in such auction.  If a Locational Price Adder results from the clearing of an LDA for two 
consecutive Base Residual Auctions, and no such planned resources or upgrades clear in such 
auctions for such LDA, then the Office of the Interconnection shall evaluate in the RTEP process 
the costs and benefits of a transmission upgrade that would reduce to zero the Locational Price 
Adder for such LDA.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.16. RELIABILITY BACKSTOP 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 1 
16. RELIABILITY BACKSTOP  
 
16.1. Purpose 
 
The Reliability Backstop provides a mechanism to resolve reliability criteria violations caused 
by: (a) lack of sufficient capacity committed through the Reliability Pricing Model Auctions; or 
(b) near-term transmission deliverability violations identified after the Base Residual Auction is 
conducted.  These backstop mechanisms are intended to guarantee that sufficient generation, 
transmission and demand response solutions will be available to preserve system reliability.  The 
backstop mechanisms are based on specific triggers that signal a need for a targeted solution to a 
reliability problem that was not resolved by the long-term commitment of Capacity Resources 
through Self-Supply or the Reliability Pricing Model Auctions.   
 
16.2 Investigation of Capacity Shortfall 
 
If the total Unforced Capacity of Capacity Resources committed for a Delivery Year following 
the Base Residual Auction equates to an installed reserve margin that is more than one 
percentage point lower than the approved PJM Region Installed Reserve Margin, the Office of 
the Interconnection shall investigate the cause for the shortage, and recommend corrective 
action, including, without limitation, adjusting the Cost of New Entry to the extent determined 
necessary by such investigation, or addressing other barriers to entry identified by such 
investigation.  No Reliability Backstop Auction will be conducted to address such a shortfall 
unless it occurs in the Base Residual Auctions for three consecutive Delivery Years.  
 
16.3 Triggering Conditions 
 
 a) Either of the following two conditions will trigger reliability backstop measures 
provided in this section, as described below: 
 
i) If the total Unforced Capacity of all Capacity Resources committed 
through Self-Supply or the Base Residual Auctions for three consecutive Delivery Years, equates 
to an installed reserve margin that is more than one percentage point lower than the approved 
PJM Region Installed Reserve Margin, the Office of the Interconnection will declare a capacity 
shortage and make a filing with FERC for approval to conduct a Reliability Backstop Auction.  
Upon receipt of such approval, the Office of the Interconnection will conduct a Reliability 
Backstop Auction in accordance with ection 16.4 below. 
 
ii) If the total Unforced Capacity of all Base Load Generation Resources 
committed in a Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year is less than the forecasted minimum 
hourly load calculated by the Office of the Interconnection for such Delivery Year, the Office of 
the Interconnection will investigate the cause of shortfall.  If such a shortfall occurs in the Base 
Residual Auctions for three consecutive Delivery Years, the Office of the Interconnection shall 
declare a capacity shortage and make a filing with FERC for approval to conduct a Reliability 
Backstop Auction.  Upon receipt of such approval, the Office of the Interconnection will conduct 
a Reliability Backstop Auction in accordance with section 16.4 below.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.16. RELIABILITY BACKSTOP 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 2 
 b) In addition to the foregoing events that trigger reliability backstop measures, if a 
near-term, i.e., later in time than the conduct of the Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year, 
transmission criteria violation caused by an announced generation resource deactivation is 
identified by the regional transmission reliability planning analysis performed by the Office of 
the Interconnection in accordance with Part V of this Tariff, the Office of the Interconnection 
will identify the necessary transmission upgrade. In accordance with such rules, such generation 
resource may remain in service until the transmission upgrade is installed.  No Reliability 
Backstop Auction will be conducted. 
 
16.4. Reliability Backstop Auction 
 
 a) Scope of Auction  
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall conduct each Reliability Backstop Auction to commit 
additional Generation Capacity Resources, or in the case of an auction triggered by section 
16.3(a)(ii), additional Base Load Generation Resources to the PJM Region to resolve the system-
wide reliability criteria violation that triggered the need for such auction.  Capacity Resources 
committed in a Reliability Backstop Auction for a Delivery Year shall not include any Planned 
Generation Capacity Resources previously committed in the Base Residual Auction for such 
Delivery Year.  The Reliability Backstop Auction shall obtain commitments of additional 
Generation Capacity Resources (or, as applicable, additional Base Load Generation Resources) 
for a term of up to fifteen (15) Delivery Years.  If a Reliability Backstop Auction is required, the 
offer period for such auction shall commence, subject to FERC approval as specified above, no 
later than four months after the Base Residual Auction in which the third consecutive Capacity 
Resource shortfall occurs. Upon verification and notification by the PJM Board of Managers that 
a Reliability Backstop Auction is required, the Office of the Interconnection shall post 
notification that a Reliability Backstop Auction is to be held.  Upon such notification, the offer 
period shall commence, and shall remain open for six (6) months.  PJMSettlement shall be the 
Counterparty to the capacity transaction resulting from committed Capacity Resources clearing 
the Reliability Backstop Auction. 
 
 b) Sell Offers 
 
Each Sell Offer shall specify the following information, as further specified in the PJM Manuals: 
 
• the minimum price in $/MW-day required by the Capacity Market Seller to 
provide additional Unforced Capacity from a Generation Capacity Resource (or 
from a Base Load Generation Resource, in the case of an auction triggered by 
section 16.3(a)(ii)) above; 
 
• the megawatts of Unforced Capacity to be provided by such resource;  
 
• the specific location of the proposed plant;  
 
• all information required from a Generation Interconnection Customer by Tariff, 
Part IV and the PJM Manuals;  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.16. RELIABILITY BACKSTOP 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 3 
• general plant technical specifications, as specified in the PJM Manuals; 
 
• the term of cost recovery (“Backstop Period”) requested, not to exceed 15 years; 
and   
 
• the first full Delivery Year for which such resource shall be available, which shall 
also be the first year of the Backstop Period. 
 
Each Generation Capacity Resource (or Base Load Generation Resource) accepted in a 
Reliability Backstop Auction shall comply with the procedures for new generation 
interconnection in Tariff, Part IV, and each such resource shall be responsible for satisfying all 
capability and deliverability requirements for Capacity Resources, pursuant to the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement.  
 
 c) Submission of Sell Offers 
 
The Sell Offer period shall begin at 00:01 Eastern Prevailing Time on the date specified by the 
Office of the Interconnection in the notification posting and shall end at 23:59 Eastern Prevailing 
Time six calendar months after such date.  Sell offers shall be submitted during such period in 
writing to the Office of the Interconnection, and shall conform to the submission procedures as 
specified in the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the Interconnection shall confirm in writing the 
receipt of each Sell Offer, within two weeks after receipt of each such offer. 
 
 d) Posting of Information by the Office of the Interconnection  
 
Upon notification by the PJM Board of Managers that a Reliability Backstop Auction will be 
conducted, the Office of the Interconnection shall post the following information: 
 
• System condition that necessitates a Reliability Backstop Auction; 
 
• Megawatt quantity of Unforced Capacity required from additional Generation 
Capacity Resources, or from additional Base Load Generation Resources;  
 
• Date by which the resources must be capable of delivering Unforced Capacity; 
 
• Any other required specifications for the additional Unforced Capacity sought 
through such auction. 
 
 e) Conduct of the Reliability Backstop Auction 
 
  i) Auction Clearing Procedure 
 
The Reliability Backstop Auction shall select the Sell Offer or combination of Sell Offers that 
that satisfies the requirements posted by the Office of the Interconnection at the lowest offer 
price(s).  If more than one Sell Offer must be selected to satisfy the specified requirements, the 
Sell Offers shall be selected in rank order from lowest offer price to highest offer price until the 
requirement is satisfied.  In the event two or more Sell Offers specify the same offer price, and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.16. RELIABILITY BACKSTOP 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 4 
fewer than all of such offers are needed to satisfy the specified requirements, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall select the Sell Offer(s) proposing Generation Capacity Resource(s), or, as 
applicable, Base Load Generation Resource(s) that will best satisfy overall reliability 
requirements for the PJM Region, as determined by the Office of the Interconnection using 
transmission reliability analysis.  
 
  ii) Market Settlement 
 
Pursuant to the agreement specified below, each Capacity Market Seller submitting a Sell Offer 
that is accepted in a Reliability Backstop Auction shall be paid by PJMSettlement the offer price 
in such Sell Offer for each MW-day in the Backstop Period, less any payments the Capacity 
Market Seller is entitled to receive pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5 as a result of 
Sell Offers submitted with respect to such Generation Capacity Resource in any Base Residual 
Auction or Incremental Auction, including, without limitation, payments of Capacity Resource 
Clearing Prices (including for Self-Supply) and Resource Make-Whole Payments; and less any 
payments the Capacity Market Seller is entitled to receive for energy or ancillary services 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1 with respect to services provided by such resource, 
net of the Variable Operations and Maintenance costs of such resource, as determined in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals.  
 
PJM shall recover the costs of any such payments to Capacity Market Sellers for such resources 
through a charge, in addition to the Locational Reliability Charge, assessed on all LSEs in the 
PJM Region, pro rata based on each such LSE’s Daily Unforced Capacity Obligations in all 
LDAs in which such LSE serves load.  PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the LSE’s 
obligation to pay, and payment of, such charges. 
 
  iii) Standard Contract Provisions 
 
PJMSettlement, will enter into an agreement with each Capacity Market Seller that submitted an 
accepted Sell Offer in any Reliability Backstop Auction providing for the payments specified 
above.  Such agreement shall include the provisions and address the standards set forth in section 
16.4(b) above, and shall include such other terms and conditions as are customary in the 
industry, as specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
 f) FERC Approval  
 
Any such agreement shall provide that it shall be filed with FERC as a rate schedule pursuant to 
section 205 of the Federal Power Act, and that the effectiveness of such agreement shall be 
conditioned on receipt of FERC acceptance or approval of such agreement. 
 
16.5 Must Offer into Base Residual Auction 
 
All Capacity Market Sellers submitting a Sell Offer that is selected in a Reliability Backstop 
Auction must offer all Unforced Capacity of the Generation Capacity Resource underlying such 
Sell Offer into the Base Residual Auctions conducted subsequent to the Reliability Backstop 
Auction for all Delivery Years in the Backstop Period.  The Market Seller shall offer the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.16. RELIABILITY BACKSTOP 
Effective Date: 11/2/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2799-000 - Page 5 
Unforced Capacity of such resources into each such auction at zero price, and shall receive the 
Capacity Resource Clearing Price as determined in each such auction. 
 
16.6 Reliability Backstop Resource Deficiency Charges 
 
 (a) Any Capacity Market Seller that submits a Sell Offer that was selected in a 
Reliability Backstop Auction and that is not able to deliver in a Delivery Year all megawatts of 
Unforced Capacity specified in the selected Sell Offer, shall not receive any payments that such 
Capacity Market Seller otherwise would have been eligible to receive for such Delivery Year 
pursuant to the Reliability Backstop Auction. 
 
 (b) Any Capacity Market Seller that submits a Sell Offer that was selected in a 
Reliability Backstop Auction and that fails to deliver all megawatts of Unforced Capacity 
specified in the selected Sell Offer at any time during the Backstop Period specified in such Sell 
Offer must refund all payments received by such Market Seller pursuant to section 16.4(b) 
above. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD.17 [Reserved] 
Effective Date: 12/17/2012 - Docket #: ER13-149-000 - Page 1 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT DD-1 
  
Preface:  The provisions of this Attachment incorporate into the Tariff for ease of reference the 
provisions of Schedule 6 of the Reliability Assurance Agreement among Load Serving Entities 
in the PJM Region.  As a result, this Attachment will be modified, subject to FERC approval, so 
that the terms and conditions set forth herein remain consistent with the corresponding terms and 
conditions of RAA, Schedule 6.  Capitalized terms used herein that are not otherwise defined in 
Tariff, Attachment DD or elsewhere in this Tariff have the meaning set forth in the RAA. 
 
PROCEDURES FOR DEMAND RESOURCES AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY 
 
A. Parties can partially or wholly offset the amounts payable for the Locational 
Reliability Charge with Demand Resources that are operated under the direction of the 
Office of the Interconnection.  FRR Entities may reduce their capacity obligations with 
Demand Resources that are operated under the direction of the Office of the 
Interconnection and detailed in such entity’s FRR Capacity Plan.  Demand Resources 
qualifying under the criteria set forth below may be offered for sale or designated as Self-
Supply in the Base Residual Auction, included in an FRR Capacity Plan, or offered for 
sale in any Incremental Auction, for any Delivery Year for which such resource qualifies.  
Qualified Demand Resources generally fall in one of two categories, i.e., Guaranteed 
Load Drop or Firm Service Level, as further specified in section G below and the PJM 
Manuals.  Qualified Demand Resources may be provided by a Curtailment Service 
Provider, notwithstanding that such Curtailment Service Provider is not a Party to this 
Agreement.  Such Curtailment Service Providers must satisfy the requirements hereof 
and the PJM Manuals. 
 
1. A Party must formally notify, in accordance with the requirements of the 
PJM Manuals and section F hereof, as applicable, the Office of the 
Interconnection of the Demand Resource Registration that it is placing under the 
direction of the Office of the Interconnection.  A Party must further notify the 
Office of the Interconnection whether the Demand Resource Registration is linked 
to a Summer-Period Demand Resource or an Annual Demand Resource. 
 
2. A Demand Resource Registration must achieve its full load reduction 
within the following time period: 
 
 (a) For the 2015/2016 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery Years, a Demand 
Resource Registration must be able to fully respond to a Load Management Event 
within 30 minutes of notification from the Office of the Interconnection.  This 
default 30 minute prior notification shall apply unless a Curtailment Service Provider 
obtains an exception from the Office of the Interconnection due to physical 
operational limitations that prevent the Demand Resource Registration from 
reducing load within that timeframe.  In such case, the Curtailment Service Provider 
shall submit a request for an exception to the 30 minute prior notification requirement 
to the Office of the Interconnection, at the time the Registration Form for that 
Demand Resource Registration is submitted in accordance with Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix.  The only alternative notification times that the Office 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 2 
of Interconnection will permit, upon approval of an exception request, are 60 
minutes and 120 minutes prior to a Load Management Event.  The Curtailment 
Service Provider shall indicate in writing, in the appropriate application, that it 
seeks an exception to permit a prior notification time of 60 minutes or 120 
minutes, and the reason(s) for the requested exception.  A Curtailment Service 
Provider shall not submit a request for an exception to the default 30 minute 
notification period unless it has done its due diligence to confirm that the Demand 
Resource Registration is physically incapable of responding within that timeframe 
based on one or more of the reasons set forth below and as may be further defined 
in the PJM Manuals and has obtained detailed data and documentation to support 
this determination.    
 
In order to establish that a Demand Resource Registration is reasonably expected to 
be physically unable to reduce load in that timeframe, the Curtailment Service Provider that 
submitted the Demand Resource Registration must demonstrate that:  
 
(i) The manufacturing processes for the Demand Resource Registration require 
gradual reduction to avoid damaging major industrial equipment used in the 
manufacturing process, or damage to the product generated or feedstock used in the 
manufacturing process;  
 
(ii) Transfer of load to back-up generation requires time-intensive manual process 
taking more than 30 minutes;  
 
(iii) On-site safety concerns prevent location from implementing reduction plan in 
less than 30 minutes; or, 
 
(iv) The Demand Resource Registration is comprised of mass market residential 
customers or Small Commercial Customers which collectively cannot be notified of a 
Load Management Event within a 30-minute timeframe due to unavoidable 
communications latency, in which case the requested notification time shall be no 
longer than 120 minutes.  
 
The Office of the Interconnection may request data and documentation from the 
Curtailment Service Provider and such Curtailment Service Provider shall provide to the Office 
of the Interconnection within three (3) Business Days of a request therefor, a copy of all of the data 
and documentation supporting the exception request. Failure to provide a timely response to such 
request shall cause the exception to terminate the following Operating Day. 
 
At its sole option and discretion, the Office of the Interconnection may review the data 
and documentation provided by the Curtailment Service Provider to determine if the Demand 
Resource Registration has met one or more of the criteria above.  The Office of the 
Interconnection will notify the Curtailment Service Provider in writing of its determination by no 
later than ten (10) Business Days after receipt of the data and documentation.   
 
The Curtailment Service Provider shall provide written notification to the Office of the 
Interconnection of a material change to the facts that supported its exception request within three 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 3 
(3) Business Days of becoming aware of such material change in facts, and, if the Office of 
Interconnection determines that the physical limitation criteria above are no longer being met, 
the Demand Resource Registration shall be subject to the default notification period of 30 
minutes  immediately upon such determination. 
 
3. The initiation of load reduction, upon the request of the Office of the 
Interconnection, must be within the authority of the dispatchers of the Party.  No 
additional approvals should be required. 
 
4. The initiation of load reduction upon the request of the Office of the 
Interconnection is considered a pre-emergency or emergency action and must be 
implementable prior to a voltage reduction. 
 
5. A Curtailment Service Provider intending to offer for sale or designate for self-
supply, a Demand Resource in any RPM Auction, or intending to include a Demand 
Resource in any FRR Capacity Plan must demonstrate, to PJM’s satisfaction, that such 
resource shall have the capability to provide a reduction in demand, or otherwise control 
load, on or before the start of the Delivery Year for which such resource is committed.  
As part of such demonstration, each such Curtailment Service Provider shall submit a 
Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan in accordance with the standards and procedures set 
forth in RAA, Schedule 6, section A-1; RAA, Schedule 8.1 (as to FRR Capacity Plans) 
and the PJM Manuals, no later than 30 days prior to, as applicable, the RPM Auction in 
which such resource is to be offered, or the deadline for submission of the FRR Capacity 
Plan in which such resource is to be included.  PJM may verify the Curtailment Service 
Provider’s adherence to the Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan at any time.  A 
Curtailment Service Provider with a PJM-approved Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan 
will be permitted to offer up to the approved Demand Resource quantity into the subject 
RPM Auction or include such resource in its FRR Capacity Plan. 
 
6. Selection of a Demand Resource in an RPM Auction results in commitment of 
capacity to the PJM Region.  Demand Resources that are so committed must be linked to 
registrations participating in the Full Program Option or Capacity Only Option of the 
Emergency Load Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Program and thus 
available for dispatch during PJM-declared pre-emergency events and emergency events.  
 
A-1. A Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan shall consist of a completed template 
document in the form posted on the PJM website, requiring the information set forth 
below and in the PJM Manuals, and a Demand Resource Officer Certification Form 
signed by an officer of the Demand Resource Provider that is duly authorized to provide 
such a certification.  The Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan must provide information that 
supports the Demand Resource Provider’s intended Demand Resource Sell Offers and 
demonstrates that the Demand Resources are being offered with the intention that the 
MW quantity that clears the auction is reasonably expected to be physically delivered 
through Demand Resource registrations for the relevant Delivery Year.  The Demand 
Resource Sell Offer Plan shall include all Existing Demand Resources and all Planned 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 4 
Demand Resources that the Demand Resource Provider intends to offer into an RPM 
Auction or include in an FRR Capacity Plan. 
 
1.  Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan Template.  The Demand Resource Sell 
Offer Plan template, in the form provided on the PJM website, shall require the 
Demand Resource Provider to provide the following information and such other 
information as specified in the PJM Manuals:    
 
(a) Summary Information. The completed template shall include the 
Demand Resource Provider’s company name, contact information, and the 
Nominated DR Value in ICAP MWs by Zone/sub-Zone that the Demand 
Resource Provider intends to offer, stated separately for Existing Demand 
Resources and Planned Demand Resources.  The total Nominated DR 
Value in MWs for each Zone/sub-Zone shall be the sum of the Nominated 
DR Value of Existing Demand Resources and the Nominated DR Value of 
Planned Demand Resources, and shall be the maximum MW amount the 
Provider intends to offer in the RPM Auction for the indicated Zone/sub-
Zone, provided that nothing herein shall preclude the Demand Resource 
Provider from offering in the auction a lesser amount than the total 
Nominated DR Value shown in its Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan. 
 
(b) Existing Demand Resources.  The Demand Resource Provider 
shall identify all Existing Demand Resources by identifying end-use 
customer sites that are currently registered with PJM (even if not 
registered by such Demand Resource Provider) and that the Demand 
Resource Provider reasonably expects to have under a contract to reduce 
load based on PJM dispatch instructions by the start of the auction 
Delivery Year.   
 
(c) Planned Demand Resources.  The Demand Resource Provider shall 
provide the details of, and key assumptions underlying, the Planned 
Demand Resource quantities (i.e., all Demand Resource quantities in 
excess of Existing Demand Resource quantities) contained in the Demand 
Resource Sell Offer Plan, including: 
 
(i) key program attributes and assumptions used to develop the 
Planned Demand Resource quantities, including, but not limited to, 
discussion of:  
● method(s) of achieving load reduction at customer site(s);  
● equipment to be controlled or installed at customer site(s), 
if any;  
● plan and ability to acquire customers;  
● types of customer targeted;  
● support of market potential and market share for the target 
customer base, with adjustments for Existing Demand 
Resource customers within this market and the potential for 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 5 
other Demand Resource Providers targeting the same 
customers; and 
● assumptions regarding regulatory approval of program(s), 
if applicable. 
 (ii) Zone/sub-Zone information by end-use customer segment for all 
Nominated DR Values for which an end-use customer site is not 
identified, to include the number in each segment of end-use customers 
expected to be registered for the subject Delivery Year, the average Peak 
Load Contribution per end-use customer for such segment, and the 
average Nominated DR Value per customer for such segment.  End-use 
customer segments may include residential, commercial, small industrial, 
medium industrial, and large industrial, as identified and defined in the 
PJM Manuals, provided that nothing herein or in the Manuals shall 
preclude the Provider from identifying more specific customer segments 
within the commercial and industrial categories, if known.   
 
(iii) Information by end-use customer site to the extent required by 
subsection A-1(1)(c)(iv) or, if not required by such subsection, to the 
extent known at the time of the submittal of the Demand Resource Sell 
Offer Plan, to include: customer EDC account number (if known), 
customer name, customer premise address, Zone/sub-Zone in which the 
customer is located, end-use customer segment, current Peak Load 
Contribution value (or an estimate if actual value not known) and an 
estimate of expected Peak Load Contribution for the subject Delivery 
Year, and an estimated Nominated DR Value.   
 
(iv) End-use customer site-specific information shall be required for 
any Zones or sub-Zones identified by PJM pursuant to this subsection for 
the portion, if any, of a Demand Resource Provider’s intended offer in 
such Zones or sub-Zones that exceeds a Sell Offer threshold determined 
pursuant to this subsection, as any such excess quantity under such 
conditions should reflect Planned Demand Resources from end-use 
customer sites that the Provider has a high degree of certainty it will 
physically deliver for the subject Delivery Year.  In accordance with the 
procedures in subsection A-1(3) below, PJM shall identify, as requiring 
site-specific information, all Zones and sub-Zones that comprise any LDA 
group (from a list of LDA groups stated in the PJM Manuals) in which 
[the quantity of cleared Demand Resources from the most recent Base 
Residual Auction] plus [the quantity of Demand Resources included in 
FRR Capacity Plans for the Delivery Year addressed by the most recent 
Base Residual Auction] in any Zone or sub-Zone of such LDA group 
exceeds the greater of: 
   
● the maximum Demand Resources quantity registered with 
PJM  for such Zone for any Delivery Year from the current 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 6 
(at time of plan submission) Delivery Year and the two 
preceding Delivery Years; and 
  
● the potential Demand Resource quantity for such Zone 
estimated by PJM based on an independent published 
assessment of demand response potential that is reasonably 
applicable to such Zone, as identified in the PJM Manuals.  
 
For each such Zone and sub-Zone, the Sell Offer threshold for each 
Demand Resource Provider shall be the higher of: 
 
● the Demand Resource Provider’s maximum Demand 
Resource quantity registered with PJM for such Zone/sub-
Zone over the current Delivery Year (at the time of plan 
submission) and two preceding Delivery Years; 
 
● the Demand Resource Provider’s maximum for any single 
Delivery Year of [such provider’s cleared Demand 
Resource quantity] plus [such provider’s quantity of 
Demand Resources included in FRR Capacity Plans] from 
the three forward Delivery Years addressed by the three 
most recent Base Residual Auctions for such Zone/sub-
Zone; and 
 
● 10 MW. 
 
(d) Schedule.  The Demand Resource Provider shall provide an 
approximate timeline for procuring end-use customer sites as needed to 
physically deliver the total Nominated DR Value (for both Existing 
Demand Resources and Planned Demand Resources) by Zone/sub-Zone in 
the Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan.  The Demand Resource Provider 
must specify the cumulative number of customers and the cumulative 
Nominated DR Value associated with each end-use customer segment 
within each Zone/sub-Zone that the Demand Resource Provider expects 
(at the time of plan submission) to have under contract as of June 1 each 
year between the time of the auction and the subject Delivery Year. 
 
2.  Demand Resource Officer Certification Form.  Each Demand Resource Sell 
Offer Plan must include a Demand Resource Officer Certification, signed by an 
officer of the Demand Resource Provider that is duly authorized to provide such a 
certification, in the form shown in the PJM Manuals, which form shall include the 
following certifications: 
 
(a) that the signing officer has reviewed the Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan and 
the information supplied to PJM in support of the Plan is true and correct as of the 
date of the certification;  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 7 
 
(b) that the Sell Offer Plan does not include any Critical Natural Gas 
Infrastructure facilities, and 
 
(c) that the Demand Resource Provider is submitting the Plan with the reasonable 
expectation, based upon its analyses as of the date of the certification, to 
physically deliver all megawatts that clear the RPM Auction through Demand 
Resource registrations by the specified Delivery Year. 
 
As set forth in the form provided in the PJM Manuals, the certification shall 
specify that it does not in any way abridge, expand, or otherwise modify the current provisions of 
the PJM Tariff, Operating Agreement and/or RAA, or the Demand Resource Provider’s rights 
and obligations thereunder, including the Demand Resource Provider’s ability to adjust capacity 
obligations through participation in PJM incremental auctions and bilateral transactions.  
 
3.  Procedures.  No later than December 1 prior to the Base Residual Auction for a 
Delivery Year, PJM shall post to the PJM website a list of Zones and sub-Zones, 
if any, for which end-use customer site-specific information shall be required 
under the conditions specified in subsection A-1(1)(c)(iv) above for all RPM 
Auctions conducted for such Delivery Year.  Once so identified, a Zone or sub-
Zone shall remain on the list for future Delivery Years until the threshold 
determined under subsection A-1(1)(c)(iv) above is not exceeded for three 
consecutive Delivery Years.  No later than 30 days prior to the RPM Auction in 
which a Demand Resource Provider intends to offer a Demand Resource, the 
Demand Resource Provider shall submit to PJM a completed Demand Resource 
Sell Offer Plan template and a Demand Resource Officer Certification Form 
signed by a duly authorized officer of the Provider.  PJM will review all 
submitted DR Sell Offer Plans.  No later than 10 Business Days prior to the 
subject RPM Auction, PJM shall notify any Demand Resource Providers that 
have identified the same end-use customer site(s) in their respective DR Sell Offer 
Plans for the same Delivery Year.  In such event, the MWs associated with such 
site(s) will not be approved for inclusion in a Sell Offer in an RPM Auction by 
any of the Demand Resource Providers, unless a Demand Resource Provider 
provides a letter of support from the end-use customer indicating that it is likely to 
execute a contract with that Demand Resource Provider for the relevant Delivery 
Year, or provides other comparable evidence of likely commitment.  Such letter 
of support or other supporting evidence must be provided to PJM no later than 7 
Business Days prior to the subject RPM Auction.  If an end-use customer 
provides letters of support for the same site for the same Delivery Year to 
multiple Demand Resource Providers, the MWs associated with such end-use 
customer site shall not be approved as a Demand Resource for any of the Demand 
Resource Providers.  No later than 5 Business Days prior to the subject RPM 
Auction, PJM will notify each Demand Resource Provider of the approved 
Demand Resource quantity, by Zone/sub-Zone, that such Demand Resource 
Provider is permitted to offer into such RPM Auction. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 8 
B. The Unforced Capacity value of a Demand Resource will be determined as: 
 
(1) for Delivery Years through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year,  as the product of the 
Nominated Value of the Demand Resource times the Forecast Pool Requirement.  
Nominated Values shall be determined and reviewed in accordance with sections I and J, 
respectively, and the PJM Manuals.   
 
(2) for the 2025/2026 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery Years, in accordance with 
RAA, Schedule 9.2. Nominated Values shall be determined and reviewed in accordance 
with sections I and J, respectively, and the PJM Manuals.   
 
C. Demand Resources offered and cleared in a Base Residual or Incremental Auction shall 
receive the corresponding Capacity Resource Clearing Price as determined in such 
auction, in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD.  For Delivery Years beginning with 
the Delivery Year that commences on June 1, 2013, any Demand Resources located in a 
Zone with multiple LDAs shall receive the Capacity Resource Clearing Price applicable 
to the location of such resource within such Zone, as identified in such resource’s offer.  
Further, the Curtailment Service Provider shall register its resource in the same location 
within the Zone as specified in its cleared sell offer, and shall be subject to deficiency 
charges under Tariff, Attachment DD to the extent it fails to provide the resource in such 
location consistent with its cleared offer.     
 
D. The Party, Electric Distributor, or Curtailment Service Provider that establishes a 
contractual relationship (by contract or tariff rate) with a customer for load reductions is 
entitled to receive the compensation specified in section C for a committed Demand 
Resource, notwithstanding that such provider is not the customer’s energy supplier.  
 
E. Any Party hereto shall demonstrate that its Demand Resources performed during periods 
when load management procedures were invoked by the Office of the Interconnection.  
The Office of the Interconnection shall adopt and maintain rules and procedures for 
verifying the performance of such resources, as set forth in section K hereof and the PJM 
Manuals.  In addition, committed Demand Resources that do not comply with the 
directions of the Office of the Interconnection to reduce load during an emergency shall 
be subject to the penalty charge set forth in Tariff, Attachment DD. 
 
F. Parties may elect to place Demand Resources associated with Behind The Meter 
Generation under the direction of the Office of the Interconnection for a Delivery Year by 
submitting a Sell Offer for such resource (as Self Supply, or with an offer price) in the 
Base Residual Auction for such Delivery Year.  This election shall remain in effect for 
the entirety of such Delivery Year.  In the event such an election is made, such Behind 
The Meter Generation will not be netted from load for the purposes of calculating the 
Daily Unforced Capacity Obligations under this Agreement. 
 
G. PJM measures Demand Resource Registrations in the following ways: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 9 
Firm Service Level (FSL) – Load management achieved by an end-use customer 
reducing its load to a pre-determined level (the Firm Service Level), upon notification 
from the Curtailment Service Provider’s market operations center or its agent. 
 
Guaranteed Load Drop (GLD) – Load management achieved by an end-use customer 
reducing its load by a pre-determined amount (the Guaranteed Load Drop), upon 
notification from the Curtailment Service Provider’s market operations center or its 
agent. Typically, the load reduction is achieved through running customer-owned backup 
generators, or by shutting down process equipment. 
 
H. Each Curtailment Service Provider must satisfy (or contract with another LSE, 
Curtailment Service Provider, or electric distribution company to provide) the following 
requirements: 
 
● A point of contact with appropriate backup to ensure single call notification from 
PJM and timely execution of the notification process; 
 
● Supplemental status reports, detailing Demand Resources available, as requested 
by PJM; 
 
● Entry of customer-specific Demand Resource Registration information, for 
planning and verification purposes, into the designated PJM electronic system.  
 
● Customer-specific compliance and verification information for each PJM-initiated 
Demand Resource event or test event, as well as aggregated Provider load drop data for 
Provider-initiated events, in accordance with established reporting guidelines. 
 
● Load drop estimates for all Load Management events and test events, prepared in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
I. The Nominated Values (summer or winter) for each Demand Resource Registration shall 
be determined consistent with the process described below.   
 
The summer Nominated Value for Firm Service Level customer(s) on a registration will 
be based on the peak load contribution for the customer(s), as typically determined by the 
5CP methodology utilized by the electric distribution company to determine ICAP 
obligation values.  The  summer Nominated Value  for a registration shall equal the total 
peak load contribution for the customers on the registration minus the summer Firm 
Service Level multiplied by the loss factor.  The winter Nominated Value for Firm 
Service Level customer(s) on a registration shall equal the total Winter Peak Load for 
customers on the registration multiplied by Zonal Winter Weather Adjustment Factor 
minus winter Firm Service level and then the result is multiplied by the loss factor.  
 
The summer Nominated Value for a Guaranteed Load Drop customer on a 
registrationshall equal the summer guaranteed load drop amount, adjusted for system 
losses and shall not exceed the customer’s Peak Load Contribution, as established by the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 10 
customer’s contract with the Curtailment Service Provider. The winter Nominated Value 
for a Guaranteed Load Drop customer on a registration shall be the winter guaranteed 
load drop amount, adjusted for system losses, and shall not exceed the customer’s Winter 
Peak Load multiplied by Zonal Winter Weather Adjustment Factor multiplied by the loss 
factor, as established by the customer’s contract with the Curtailment Service Provider.  
 
Customer-specific Demand Resource Registration information (EDC account number, 
peak load contribution, Winter Peak Load, notification period, etc.) will be entered into 
the designated PJM electronic system to establish nominated values.  Each Demand 
Resource Registration should be linked to a Demand Resource.  Additional data may be 
required, as defined in sections J and K and the PJM Manuals. 
 
J. Nominated Values shall be reviewed based on documentation of customer-specific data 
and Demand Resource Registration information, to verify the amount of load 
management available and to set a summer or winter Nominated Value.  Data is provided 
by both the zone EDC and the Curtailment Service Provider in the designated PJM 
electronic system, and must include the EDC meter number or other unique customer 
identifier, Peak Load Contribution (5CP), Winter Peak Load, contract firm service level 
or guaranteed load drop values, applicable loss factor, zone/area location of the load drop, 
number of active participants, etc.  Such data must be uploaded and approved prior to the 
first day of the Delivery Year for which such Demand Resource Registration is effective.  
Curtailment Service Providers must provide this information concurrently to host EDCs. 
 
For Firm Service Level and Guaranteed Load Drop customers, the 5CP values, for the 
zone and affected customers, will be adjusted to reflect an “unrestricted” peak for a zone, 
based on information provided by the Curtailment Service Provider.  Load drop levels 
shall be estimated in accordance with guidelines in the PJM Manuals. 
 
The daily Nominated Value of a Demand Resource with a Capacity Performance 
commitment (which may consist of an Annual Demand Resource with a Capacity 
Performance commitment and/or Summer Period Demand Resource with a Capacity 
Performance commitment) shall equal the sum of the summer Nominated Values of the 
registrations linked to such Demand Resource for the summer period of June through 
October and May of the Delivery Year, and shall equal the lesser of (i) the sum of the 
summer Nominated Values of the registrations linked to such Demand Resource or (ii) 
the sum of the winter Nominated Values of the registrations linked to such Demand 
Resource for the non-summer period of November through April of the Delivery Year. 
 
K. Compliance is the process utilized to review Provider performance during PJM-initiated 
Load Management events and tests. Compliance will be established for each Provider on 
an event specific basis for the Curtailment Service Provider’s Demand Resource 
Registrations dispatched by the Office of the Interconnection during such event.  PJM 
will establish and communicate reasonable deadlines for the timely submittal of event 
data to expedite compliance reviews.  Compliance reviews will be completed as soon 
after the event as possible, with the expectation that reviews of a single event will be 
completed within two months of the end of the month in which the event took place.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 11 
Curtailment Service Providers are responsible for the submittal of compliance 
information to PJM for each PJM-initiated event and test during the compliance period.   
 
Compliance is measured for Market Participant Bonus Performance, as applicable, and 
Non-Performance Charges.  Non-Performance Charges are assessed for the defined 
obligation period of each Demand Resource as defined in RAA, Article 1, subject to the 
following requirements:   
 
Compliance is checked on an individual customer basis for Firm Service Level, by 
comparing actual load during the event to the firm service level.  Current load for a 
statistical sample of end-use customers may be used for compliance for residential non-
interval metered registrations in accordance with the PJM Manuals and subject to PJM 
approval. Curtailment Service Providers must submit actual customer load levels (for the 
event period) for the compliance report.  Compliance for FSL will be based on: 
 
Summer (June through October and the following May of a Delivery Year)- End 
use customer’s current Delivery Year peak load contribution (“PLC”) minus the 
metered load (“Load”) multiplied by the loss factor (“LF”). The calculation is 
represented by: 
 
(PLC) - (Load *LF) 
 
Winter (November through April of a Delivery Year)– End use customer’s Winter 
Peak Load (“WPL”) multiplied by Zonal Winter Weather Adjustment Factor 
(“ZWWAF”) multiplied by LF, minus the metered load (“Load”) multiplied by 
the LF.  The calculation is represented by: 
 
(WPL * ZWWAF * LF) – (Load * LF) 
 
 
Compliance is checked on an individual customer basis for  Guaranteed Load Drop.  
Current load for a statistical sample of end-use customers may be used for compliance for 
residential non-interval metered registrations in accordance with the PJM Manuals and 
subject to PJM approval.  Guaranteed Load Drop compliance will be based on: 
 
(i) the lesser of (a) comparison load used to best represent what the load would have 
been if PJM did not declare a Load Management Event or the CSP did not initiate 
a test as outlined in the PJM Manuals, minus the Load and then multiplied by the 
LF, or (b) For a summer event, the PLC minus the Load multiplied by the LF.  A 
summer load reduction will only be recognized for capacity compliance if the 
Load multiplied by the LF is less than the PLC.  For a non-summer event, the 
WPL multiplied the ZWWAF multiplied by LF,  minus the Load multiplied by 
the LF. A non-summer load reduction will only be recognized for capacity 
compliance if the Load multiplied by the LF is less than the WPL multiplied by 
the ZWWAF multiplied by LF. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD --> OATT ATTACHMENT DD-1 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 12 
(ii) Curtailment Service Providers must submit actual loads and comparison loads for 
all hours during the day of the Load Management Event or the Load Management 
performance test, and for all hours during any other days as required by the Office 
of the Interconnection to calculate the load reduction.  Comparison loads must be 
developed from the guidelines in the PJM Manuals, and note which method was 
employed. 
(iii) Methodologies for establishing comparison load for Guaranteed Load Drop end-
use customers are described in greater detail in Manual M-19, PJM Manual for 
Load Forecasting and Analysis, at Attachment A: Load Drop Estimate Guidelines. 
 
Load reduction compliance is determined on an hourly basis for a Demand Resource 
Registration linked to an Annual Demand Resource with a Capacity Performance 
commitment, for each FSL and GLD customer dispatched by the Office of the 
Interconnection for at least 30 minutes of the clock hour (i.e., “partial dispatch 
compliance hour”).  Curtailment Service Provider may submit 1 minute load data for use 
in capacity compliance calculations for partial dispatch compliance hours subject to PJM 
approval and in accordance with the PJM Manuals where: (a) metering meets all Tariff 
and Manual requirements, (b) 1 minute load data shall be submitted to PJM for all 
locations on the registration, and (c) 1 minute load data measures energy consumption 
over the minute. The registered capacity commitment for a Demand Resource 
Registration with a Capacity Performance commitment is not prorated based on the 
number of minutes dispatched during the clock hours.  The actual hourly load reduction 
for the hour ending that includes a Performance Assessment Interval(s) is flat-profiled 
over the set of dispatch intervals in the hour in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
A Demand Resource Registration may not reduce their load below zero (i.e., export 
energy into the system). No compliance credit will be given for an incremental load drop 
below zero.   
 
For a Performance Assessment Interval, compliance will be totaled over all dispatched 
registrations for FSL and GLD customers linked to a Provider’s Annual Demand 
Resource with a Capacity Performance commitment to determine the Actual Performance 
for such Demand Resource in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 10A, and 
PJM Manuals.  The Expected Performance for such Demand Resource shall be equal to 
the Provider’s committed capacity on the Demand Resource, adjusted to account for any 
linked registrations that were not dispatched by PJM.  A Provider’s Demand Resources’ 
initial Performance Shortfalls  shall be netted for all the seller’s Demand Resources in the 
Emergency Action Area to determine a net Emergency Action Area Performance 
Shortfall which is then allocated to the Capacity Market Seller’s Demand Resources in 
accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 10A, and PJM Manuals. 
 
L. Energy Efficiency Resources – all provisions in RAA, Schedule 6, section L and Tariff, 
Attachment DD-1, section L shall be effective only through the 2025/2026 Delivery 
Year. Thereafter, no Energy Efficiency Resources shall qualify to be offered into the 
RPM Auctions beginning with the 2026/2027 Delivery Year. 
 
