ATTACHMENT D 
 
Methodology for Completing a System Impact Study 
 
The Transmission Provider will notify applicants for transmission service of the need to conduct 
a System Impact Study whenever the Transmission Provider determines that available 
transmission capability may not be sufficient to provide the requested firm service(s).  The 
purpose of the impact study will be to determine the effect the requested service(s) will have on 
system operations, identify any system constraints, redispatch options and whether system 
expansion will be required to provide the requested service(s). 
 
The Commission’s comparability standard will be applied in evaluating the impact of all 
requests.  Specifically, the Transmission Provider will use the same due diligence in completing 
System Impact Studies for any Eligible Customers that it uses when completing studies for any 
Transmission Owner that requests service from the Transmission Provider. 
 
Requests for long-term firm transmission service will be evaluated, to the extent possible, as a 
part of the on-going planning process for Bulk Transmission Supply in the PJM Region.  
Appropriate planning studies will be conducted annually to assess the capability of the PJM 
Region Transmission System to deliver the planned Network Resources to the Forecasted 
Network Loads of the existing load serving entities and any prior committed Firm Point-to-Point 
Service transmission customers.  The loads and resources of Eligible Customers requesting new 
or additional service during the normal planning cycle will be incorporated into this aggregate 
planning process along with the loads and resources of all other Firm Point-to-Point and load 
serving entities for which prior commitments to provide service have been made.  Requests for 
long-term firm service made at times that will not permit the evaluation of impacts as part of the 
normal planning process, and requests for short-term firm service, will require that special 
impact studies be completed. 
 
The Transmission Provider plans and evaluates the PJM Region Transmission System in strict 
compliance with the following: 
 
1. North American Electric Reliability Council (“NERC”) Reliability Principles and Guides 
 
2. Applicable Standards 
 
3. Transmission planning criteria, methods and procedures described in the “FERC Form 
No. 715 - Annual Transmission Planning and Evaluation Report” for each Applicable 
Regional Entity. 
 
In evaluating the impact of any request for new or additional service(s), the Transmission 
Provider will first determine the capability of the system to reliably provide prior committed 
Network and Point-to-Point service for the term of the requested new or additional service(s), or 
the normal planning horizon (generally 10 years), whichever is shorter.  Requests for new or 
additional service(s) will then be incorporated into the system representation data and the 
appropriate system analyses will be completed to evaluate the impacts of the requested services. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT D 
Effective Date: 7/18/2012 - Docket #: ER12-1784-000 - Page 2 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT E 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
