[ATTACHMENT N - Part 3 of 5]

accordance with established reliability criteria, that the continued operation of the generating unit 
is no longer necessary for the reliability of the Transmission System, the Generation Owner or its 
Designated Agent shall provide notice of such proposed Deactivation in writing to the 
Transmission Provider no later than 90 days prior to the desired Deactivation Date for the 
generating unit.   
 
113.4 Notice for Generation Units Providing Reactive Supply and Voltage Control: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 113 Notices 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 3 
In addition to the notice requirements in this Tariff, Part V, when a Generation Owner desires to 
deactivate a generating unit that provides reactive supply and voltage control service under 
Tariff, Schedule 2, such Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, must satisfy the notice and 
filing requirements in Tariff, Schedule 2.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 114 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
114 Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit: 
 
In the event that the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent informs Transmission Provider 
pursuant to section 113.2 that it will continue operating a generating unit beyond its desired 
Deactivation Date, the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent shall receive a monthly 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit for such continued operation pursuant to the terms and 
conditions of this section 114.   
 
Subject to section 119 of this Tariff, a Generation Owner or its Designated Agent shall be 
eligible for Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credits commencing on the later of the 
proposed Deactivation Date of its generating unit or the day after the Generation Owner 
or its Designated Agent submits the informational filing pursuant to section 116 of this 
Tariff and continuing until the earlier of such time as the generating unit is deactivated or 
the completion date of the necessary 
 
Transmission System reliability upgrades that would alleviate the reliability impact 
resulting from the Deactivation of the generating unit, or the Transmission Provider 
otherwise determines, in accordance with established reliability criteria, that the 
continued operation of the generating unit is no longer necessary for the reliability of the 
Transmission System.  The Transmission Provider shall give at least thirty days notice to 
a Generation Owner or its Designated Agent of the date when continued operation of a 
generating unit is no longer required under Part V of the Tariff. 
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credits shall be determined according to the following 
formula: 
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit = ((Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate * 
Applicable Multiplier) * MW capability of the unit * Number of days in the 
month) + (APIR * First Year Multiplier) – Actual Net Revenues 
 
Where: 
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate is the Generation Owner’s Deactivation Avoidable 
Cost Rate determined pursuant to section 115 of this Tariff.  
 
Applicable Adder is the appropriate multiplier specified below: 
 
First Year Multiplier:  110 percent.  This multiplier shall apply commencing on the 
desired Deactivation Date of the generating unit proposed for Deactivation and for the 12 
months thereafter. 
 
Second Year Multiplier:  120 percent.  This multiplier shall apply commencing on the 
first day of the 13 th month after the desired Deactivation Date of the generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation and for the 12 months thereafter. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 114 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 2 
Third Year Multiplier:  135 percent.  This multiplier shall apply commencing on the 
first day of the 25 th month after the desired Deactivation Date of the generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation and for the 12 months thereafter. 
 
Fourth Year Multiplier:  150 percent.  This multiplier shall apply commencing on the 
first day of the 37 th month after the desired Deactivation Date of the generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation and until the earlier of such time as the generating unit is 
deactivated or the completion date of the necessary Transmission System reliability 
upgrades that would alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the Deactivation of the 
generating unit, or the Transmission Provider otherwise determines, in accordance with 
established reliability criteria, that the continued operation of the generating unit is no 
longer necessary for the reliability of the Transmission System.  
 
(Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate * Applicable Multiplier) is expressed in $/MW day. 
 
Actual Net Revenues are all revenues from PJM markets and unit-specific bilateral contracts net 
of marginal cost of service recoverable under cost-based offers to sell energy from operating 
capacity on the PJM Interchange Energy Market under the Operating Agreement, not less than 
zero.  
  
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit shall not be less than zero.   
 
The Market Monitoring Unit and the generating unit owner shall attempt to come to agreement 
on the appropriate level of each component included in the Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit.  
If a generating unit owner includes a cost component inconsistent with its agreement or 
inconsistent with the Market Monitoring Unit’s determination regarding such cost components, 
the Market Monitoring Unit may petition the Commission for an order that would require the 
generating unit owner to include an appropriate cost component.  This provision is duplicated in 
section IV.2 of Attachment M – Appendix. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 115 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
115 Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
 
The Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate for a generating unit proposed for Deactivation shall be 
determined using the following formula:   
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate = ((AOML + AAE + AME + AVE + 
ATFI + ACC + ACLE) / 12) 
 
Where: 
 
 AOML (Avoidable Operations and Maintenance Labor) consists of the 
avoidable labor expenses related directly to operations and maintenance of the 
generating unit proposed for Deactivation for the twelve months preceding the 
Generation Owner’s notice pursuant to section 113.1 of this Tariff.  The 
categories of expenses included in AOML are those incurred for:  (a) on-site 
based labor engaged in operations and maintenance activities; (b) off-site based 
labor engaged in on-site operations and maintenance activities directly related to 
the generating unit; and (c) off-site based labor engaged in off-site operations and 
maintenance activities directly related to generating unit equipment removed from 
the generating unit site.  
 
 AAE (Avoidable Administrative Expenses) consists of the avoidable 
administrative expenses related directly to employees at the generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation for twelve months preceding the Generation Owner’s 
notice pursuant to section 113.1 of this Tariff.  The categories of expenses 
included in AAE are those incurred for:  (a) employee expenses (except employee 
expenses included in AOML); (b) environmental fees; (c) safety and operator 
training; (d) office supplies; (e) communications; and (f) annual plant test, 
inspection and analysis. 
 
 AME (Avoidable Maintenance Expenses) consists of avoidable 
maintenance expenses (other than expenses included in AOML) related directly to 
the generating unit proposed for Deactivation for the twelve months preceding the 
Generation Owner’s notice pursuant to section 113.1 of this Tariff.  The 
categories of expenses included in AME are those incurred for:  (a) chemical and 
materials consumed during maintenance of the generating unit; and (b) rented 
maintenance equipment used to maintain the generating unit. 
 
 AVE (Avoidable Variable Expenses) consists of avoidable variable 
expenses related directly to the generating unit proposed for Deactivation incurred 
in the twelve months preceding the Generation Owner’s notice pursuant to section 
113.1 of this Tariff.  The categories of expenses included in AVE are those 
incurred for:  (a) water treatment chemicals and lubricants; (b) water, gas, and 
electric service (not for power generation); and (c) waste water treatment.  
 
 ATFI (Avoidable Taxes, Fees and Insurance) consists of avoidable 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 115 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 2 
expenses related directly to the generating unit proposed for Deactivation incurred 
in the twelve months preceding the Generation Owner’s notice pursuant to section 
113.1 of this Tariff.  The categories of expenses included in AFTI are those 
incurred for:  (a) insurance; (b) permits and licensing fees; (c) site security and 
utilities for maintaining security at the site; and (d) property taxes.   
 
 ACC (Avoidable Carrying Charges) consists of avoidable short term 
carrying charges related directly to the generating unit proposed for Deactivation 
in the twelve months preceding the Generation Owner’s notice pursuant to section 
113.1 of this Tariff.  Avoidable short term carrying charges shall include short 
term carrying charges for maintaining reasonable levels of inventories of fuel and 
spare parts that result from short-term operational unit decisions as measured by 
industry best practice standards.  For the purpose of determining ACC, short term 
is the time period in which a reasonable replacement of inventory for normal, 
expected operations can occur. 
 
 ACLE (Avoidable Corporate Level Expenses) consists of avoidable 
corporate level expenses directly related to the generating unit proposed for 
Deactivation incurred in the twelve months preceding the Generation Owner’s 
notice pursuant to section 113.1 of this Tariff.  Avoidable corporate level 
expenses shall include only such expenses that are directly linked to providing 
tangible services required for the operation of the generating unit proposed for 
Deactivation.  The categories of avoidable expenses included in ACLE are those 
incurred for: (a) legal services; (b) environmental reporting; and (c) procurement 
expenses. 
 
The Avoidable Project Investment Recovery Rate (APIR) for a generating unit proposed for 
Deactivation shall be determined using the following formula: 
 
 APIR (Avoidable Project Investment Recovery Rate) = PI/NMR 
 
Where: 
 
PI is the amount of project investment required to enable a generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation to continue operating beyond its proposed 
Deactivation Date. 
 
NMR is the number of months beyond the proposed Deactivation Date of a 
generating unit proposed for Deactivation that the Transmission Provider has 
specified in its updated estimate pursuant to section 113.2 of this Tariff that 
such generating unit shall be required to operate.  
 
PI recovered through the APIR, shall not commence before the in-service date of the PI.  The 
amount recovered through the APIR shall not exceed the actual amount of the PI.    
 
For the purpose of determining Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate, avoidable expenses are 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 115 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 3 
incremental expenses directly required for the operation of a generating unit proposed for 
Deactivation that a Generation Owner would not incur if such generating unit deactivated on its 
proposed Deactivation Date rather than continuing to operate beyond its proposed Deactivation 
Date.  A generating unit owner shall direct all inquiries regarding avoidable expenses to the 
Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
For the purpose of determining a Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate, avoidable expenses shall 
exclude variable costs recoverable under cost-based offers to sell energy from operating capacity 
on the PJM Interchange Energy Market under the Operating Agreement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 116 Filing 
and Updating of Deactivation Avoidable Cost 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
116 Filing and Updating of Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
 
As of the proposed Deactivation Date of a generating unit or as of the day prior to the effective 
date of an updated Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate, the Generation Owner or its Designated 
Agent shall file with the Commission, for informational purposes, the Deactivation Avoidable 
Cost Rate, along with applicable cost support and a certification by an officer of the Generation 
Owner or its Designated Agent attesting to the accuracy of the Deactivation Avoidable Cost 
Rate.  Generation Owner or its Designated Agent may update the Deactivation Avoidable Cost 
Rate annually, as well as, following materially adverse unforeseen circumstances affecting the 
unit that increase the costs incurred by the Generation Owner.  Generation Owner, or its 
Designated Agent, shall provide Transmission Provider with a copy of informational filings 
submitted pursuant to this section 116.  Crediting of the Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit to 
the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent by the Transmission Provider shall commence on 
the later of the day following the date of this informational filing or the proposed Deactivation 
Date of the Generation Owner’s generating unit. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 117 
[Reserved] 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
117 [Reserved] 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 118 Refund 
of Project Investment Reimbursement: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
118 Refund of Project Investment Reimbursement: 
 
In the event that the Generation Owner’s PI in the generating unit proposed for Deactivation and 
credited through the APIR set forth in Tariff, Part V, section 115 enables the generating unit to 
remain operational beyond the completion date of the necessary Transmission System reliability 
upgrades that would alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the Deactivation of the 
generating unit, or the date that the Transmission Provider otherwise determines, in accordance 
with established reliability criteria, that the continued operation of the generating unit is no 
longer necessary for the reliability of the Transmission System, and the generating unit remains 
in service beyond such date, the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent shall refund 
Transmission Provider a pro-rata share of the amount of any PI for which it received 
reimbursement pursuant to the APIR set forth in Tariff, Part V, section 115.  The Refund of 
Project Investment Reimbursement shall be determined using the following formula: 
 
Refund of Project Investment Reimbursement = ((Number of months the PI permits the 
generating unit proposed for Deactivation to operate – The number of months Transmission 
Provider determines is required to construct the Transmission System reliability upgrades 
necessary to alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the Deactivation of the generating 
unit) / (Number of months the PI permits the generating unit proposed for Deactivation to 
operate)) * (The amount of the PI/ (Number of months the PI allows the generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation to continue to operate past the completion date of the necessary 
Transmission System reliability upgrades that would alleviate the reliability impact resulting 
from the Deactivation of the generating unit, or the date that the Transmission Provider 
otherwise determines, in accordance with established reliability criteria, that the continued 
operation of the generating unit is no longer necessary for the reliability of the Transmission 
System)). 
 
Where: 
 
The number of months the PI permits the generating unit proposed for Deactivation to 
operate is determined by the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent and verified by an 
independent entity. 
 
Generation Owner or its Designated Agent shall make the Refund of Project Investment 
Reimbursement each month for the number of months the PI allows the generating unit proposed 
for Deactivation to continue to operate past the completion date of the necessary Transmission 
System reliability upgrades that would alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the 
Deactivation of the generating unit, or the date that the Transmission Provider otherwise 
determines, in accordance with established reliability criteria, that the continued operation of the 
generating unit is no longer necessary for the reliability of the Transmission System and shall be 
credited to transmission customers in such month on the same basis as costs are allocated under 
section 120.  The months the generating unit proposed for Deactivation continues to operate past 
the completion date of the necessary Transmission System reliability upgrades that would 
alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the Deactivation of the generating unit, or the date 
that the Transmission Provider otherwise determines, in accordance with established reliability 
criteria, that the continued operation of the generating unit is no longer necessary for the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 118 Refund 
of Project Investment Reimbursement: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 2 
reliability of the Transmission System need not be continuous, and the Refund of Project 
Investment Reimbursement will continue regardless of ownership of the generating unit. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 118A 
Recovery of Project Investment: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
118A Recovery of Project Investment: 
 
A Generation Owner or its Designated Agent shall be entitled to continue to recover its PI costs 
under Tariff, Part V, section 115 in situations where the Transmission Provider subsequently 
determines the generation unit is no longer needed for reliability of the Transmission System and 
the generating unit is deactivated prior to recovering its PI costs; provided however, that any PI 
cost recovery pursuant to this section shall be net of any PI reimbursements already credited to 
the Generation Owner to its Designated Agent pursuant to the APIR set forth in Tariff, Part V, 
section 115. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 119 Cost of 
Service Recovery Rate: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
119 Cost of Service Recovery Rate: 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Part V of this Tariff, a Generation Owner with a 
generating unit proposed for Deactivation that continues operating beyond its proposed 
Deactivation Date may file with the Commission a cost of service rate to recover the entire cost 
of operating the generating unit until such time as the generating unit is deactivated pursuant to 
this Part V (“Cost of Service Recovery Rate”).  In the event that the Generation Owner or its 
Designated Agent files a rate pursuant to this section 119, the Generation Owner shall not be 
eligible to receive Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credits, except as provided pursuant to this 
section 119, and PJMSettlement shall pay the Generation Owner the Cost of Service Recovery 
Rate accepted by the Commission commencing on the effective date established by the 
Commission for the rate.  In the event the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent already is 
receiving Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credits, prior to filing an Cost of Service Recovery Rate, 
such Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credits will cease as of the date that the Generation Owner or 
its Designated Agent files its Cost of Service Recovery Rate, and PJMSettlement shall begin 
paying the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent the Cost of Service Recovery Rate 
accepted by the Commission commencing on the effective date established by the Commission 
for the rate.   
 
A generating resource owner shall direct all inquiries regarding avoidable expenses to the Market 
Monitoring Unit.  If a generating resource owner includes a cost component inconsistent with its 
agreement or inconsistent with the Market Monitoring Unit’s determination regarding such cost 
components, the Market Monitoring Unit may petition the Commission for an order that would 
require the generating resource owner to include an appropriate cost component.  This provision 
is duplicated in section IV.2 of Attachment M – Appendix. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 120 Cost 
Allocation: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
120 Cost Allocation: 
 
The costs incurred to compensate Generation Owners pursuant to this Part V of this Tariff shall 
be an additional transmission charge allocated to the load in the Zone(s) of the Transmission 
Owner(s) that will be assigned financial responsibility for the reliability upgrades necessary to 
alleviate the reliability impact that would result from the Deactivation of the generating unit and 
this new charge shall be collected monthly from such loads in addition to all other charges for 
transmission service to such loads. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 121 
Performance Standards: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
121 Performance Standards: 
 
A generating unit proposed for Deactivation that continues to operate for reliability beyond its 
desired Deactivation Date pursuant to Part V of the Tariff shall continue to be operated 
according to existing standards applicable to generating units located in the PJM Region.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 122 Black 
Start Units: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
122 Black Start Units: 
 
Nothing in this Part V of the Tariff relieves owners of Black Start Units of any obligations or 
requirements set forth in Schedule 6A of the Tariff, including (a) the two year rolling 
commitment to provide Black Start Service; (b) the notice requirements for terminating such 
commitment; or (c) the forfeiture of Black Start Service revenues for failure to fulfill such 
commitment. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 123-199 
[Reserved] 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
123-199 [Reserved] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; RIGHTS 
ASSOCIATED WITH CUSTOMER-FUNDED UPGRADES 
 
References to section numbers in this Part VI refer to sections of this Part VI, unless otherwise 
specified. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Part VI Preamble 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Preamble 
 
This Part VI shall apply to apply to: (a) any New Service Request received prior to April 1, 
2018; and (b) any New Service Request for which, as of the Transition Date (defined in Tariff, 
Part VII), the Interconnection Customer has received for execution an Interconnection Service 
Agreement or wholesale market participation agreement or has directed the Transmission 
Provider to file an Interconnection Service Agreement or wholesale market participation 
agreement unexecuted.  New Service Requests received on or after April 1, 2018 for which 
Interconnection Customers have not received for execution or directed to be filed unexecuted an 
Interconnection Service Agreement or wholesale market participation agreement will be subject 
to the Generation Interconnection Procedures set forth in Tariff, Part VII or Tariff, Part VIII, as 
applicable. 
 
Tariff, Part VI sets forth the procedures and other terms governing the Transmission Provider’s 
administration of the New Services Queue; procedures and other terms regarding studies and 
other processing of New Service Requests; the nature and timing of the agreements required in 
connection with studies and construction of required facilities; and terms and conditions relating 
to the rights available to New Service Customers in consideration of their payments for 
Customer-Funded Upgrades. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Part VI Preamble --> OATT 200 Applicability: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
200 Applicability: 
 
Tariff, Part VI applies (a) to an Interconnection Request, upon the Transmission Provider’s 
determination in an Interconnection Feasibility Study that a System Impact Study is needed to 
evaluate the facilities required to accommodate the requested interconnection; (b) to a Completed 
Application for new transmission service, upon the Transmission Provider’s determination in an 
Firm Transmission Feasibility Study that a System Impact Study is needed to evaluate the 
facilities required to provide the requested service; and (c) to Upgrade Requests, upon the 
Transmission Provider’s receipt of a completed request containing all applicable information in 
the form required by Tariff, Attachment EE in which a customer is seeking to propose a 
Merchant Network Upgrade or to advance construction of Regional Transmission Expansion 
Plan project; and (d) to Upgrade Requests seeking Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, upon 
the Transmission Provider’s determination in an Upgrade Feasibility Study that a System Impact 
Study is needed to evaluate the facilities required to accommodate the Upgrade Request.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, however, the provisions of Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G 
shall govern with respect to Generation Interconnection Requests that involve (i) proposed new 
generation resources having capability of 20 MW or less, or (ii) increases of 20 MW or less to 
the capability of existing generation resources, except where, and only to the extent, otherwise 
expressly provided herein. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Part VI Preamble --> OATT 201 Queue Position: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
201 Queue Position: 
 
Each New Service Request shall be assigned a priority, or Queue Position, based on the date and 
time all required information and requisite deposits are received, i.e., Queue Positions will be 
assigned on a first-come, first-served basis.  The Queue Position of each Interconnection Request 
and each Completed Application shall be assigned in accordance with the applicable terms of 
Tariff, Part II, Tariff, Part III, or Tariff, Part IV.  The Queue Position of each Upgrade Request 
shall be the date of Transmission Provider’s receipt of all applicable information required by 
Tariff, Attachment EE.  Subject to the applicable terms of the Tariff, all New Service Requests 
shall be processed as part of a single New Services Queue, except where such projects have been 
assigned to a subsequent queue pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, sections 36.1.01, 36.1.03, 
36.2A.1.2, or 36.2A.2, or Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, sections 110, 111, 112, or 112A, in which 
case such projects will be studied as part of a single New Services Queue with such subsequent 
queue.  With the exception of Interconnection Requests pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, section 112, 
the Transmission Provider shall publish the New Services Queue on its website identifying each 
pending New Service Request and its status as and to the extent consistent with applicable terms 
of the Tariff.  For the purpose of determining the amount of a New Service Customer's cost 
responsibility for the construction of necessary facilities or upgrades to accommodate its New 
Service Request, a New Service Request that is deemed terminated and withdrawn under this 
Part VI or other applicable terms of the Tariff shall concurrently lose its Queue Position and will 
not be included in any further studies.  Nothing in this section 201, however, precludes an entity 
from later submitting another New Service Request or resubmitting a withdrawn or terminated 
New Service Request and receiving a new Queue Position in accordance with the applicable 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, sections 36.1.01, 36.1.03, 36.2A.1.2, or 36.2A.2, or Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart G, sections 110, 111, 112, or 112A. 
 
201.1 Transferability of Queue Position: 
 
A New Service Customer may transfer its Queue Position to another entity only if, (a) in the case 
of a transfer by an Interconnection Customer, the other entity acquires the rights to the same 
Point(s) of Interconnection identified in the Interconnection Request, or, (b) in the case of a 
transfer by any other New Service Customer, the acquiring entity accepts, as applicable, the 
same receipt and delivery points or the same source and sink as stated in the transferor’s New 
Service Request.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies 
for New Service Requests 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 202 Coordination with Affected 
Systems: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
202 Coordination with Affected Systems: 
 
The Transmission Provider will coordinate with Affected System Operators the conduct of any 
studies required to determine the impact of a New Service Request on any Affected System and, 
if possible, will include those results in the System Impact Study or the Facilities Study.  The 
Transmission Provider will invite such Affected System Operators to participate in all meetings 
held with the Interconnection Customer as required by Tariff, Part VI.  The Interconnection 
Customer will cooperate with the Transmission Provider in all matters related to the conduct of 
studies by Affected System Operators and the determination of modifications to Affected 
Systems needed to accommodate the Interconnection Request.  Transmission Provider shall 
contact any potential Affected System and shall provide information regarding each relevant 
New Service Request as required for the Affected System Operator’s studies of the effects of 
such request.  A provider of transmission services on a system that may be an Affected System 
shall cooperate with the Transmission Provider in all matters related to the conduct of studies 
and the determination of modifications to Affected Systems related to New Service Requests 
under the Tariff.  To the extent Affected System results are included in the System Impact Study 
or Facilities Study, an Interconnection Customer shall be provided the opportunity to review 
such study results consistent with Tariff, Part VI, section 206.2 and Tariff, Part VI, section 
212.4(a), as applicable.  All New Service Requests will be modeled and studied consistent with 
the criteria and methodology set forth in PJM Manual 14B, section 2.3 and further supplemented 
by requirements in PJM Manual 14A, section 4.2.  These sections detail the processes and 
modeling used by the Transmission Provider for all its planning analyses, including Affected 
System studies. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 203 System Impact Study Agreement: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
203 System Impact Study Agreement:  
 
Transmission Provider shall conduct System Impact Studies pursuant to a System Impact Study 
Agreement with each affected New Service Customer. The form of the System Impact Study 
Agreement is included in Tariff, Attachment N-1. Pursuant to the System Impact Study 
Agreement, the New Service Customer shall agree to reimburse the Transmission Provider for 
the cost of a System Impact Study.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 203 System Impact Study Agreement: 
--> OATT 203.1 Cost Responsibility: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
203.1 Cost Responsibility: 
 
The System Impact Study Agreement tendered by the Transmission Provider will clearly specify 
the Transmission Provider's estimate (determined in coordination with the affected Transmission 
Owner(s)) of the cost and time required for completion of the study in which the New Service 
Request is being evaluated and the New Service Customer's cost responsibility for that study. 
The charges to all affected New Service Customers shall not exceed the actual cost of the System 
Impact Study.  In performing the System Impact Study, the Transmission Provider shall rely, to 
the extent reasonably practicable, on existing transmission planning studies. New Service 
Customers will not be assessed a charge for such existing studies; however, a New Service 
Customer will be responsible for charges associated with any modifications to existing planning 
studies that are reasonably necessary to evaluate the impact of such customer’s New Service 
Request. In the event more than one New Service Request is evaluated in a single System Impact 
Study, the cost of such study shall be allocated among the participating New Service Customers 
such that (i) each Interconnection Customer pays 100 percent of the study costs associated with 
evaluating the Attachment Facilities necessary to accommodate its Interconnection Request; (ii) 
each Eligible Customer pays 100 percent of the study costs associated with evaluating the Direct 
Assignment Facilities necessary to accommodate its Completed Application for new 
transmission service; and (iii) each New Service Customer pays the study costs associated with 
evaluating the Local Upgrades and/or Network Upgrades necessary to accommodate its New 
Service Request in proportion to its projected cost responsibility (as determined in the 
Interconnection Feasibility Study or the Firm Transmission Feasibility Study) for such upgrades. 
In the event that a New Service Customer’s responsibility for the actual cost of the System 
Impact Study under this section is less than the deposit provided with its executed System Impact 
Study Agreement, the unexpended balance of its deposit shall be refunded, with interest 
determined at the applicable rate under the Commission’s regulations. 
 
203.1.1 Transmission Owners: 
 
For System Impact Studies that the Transmission Provider conducts on behalf of a Transmission 
Owner, the Transmission Owner shall record the cost of the System Impact Studies pursuant to 
Tariff, Part I, section 8. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
204 Tender of System Impact Study Agreement: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.1 Completed Applications: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
204.1 Completed Applications: 
 
After completing a Firm Transmission Feasibility Study regarding a Completed Application for 
new transmission service, the Transmission Provider shall determine on a non-discriminatory 
basis whether a System Impact Study is required to accommodate the requested transmission 
service.  If the Transmission Provider determines that a System Impact Study is necessary to 
accommodate the requested service, it shall so inform the Eligible Customer as soon as 
practicable.  In such cases, the Transmission Provider shall, upon completion of the Firm 
Transmission Feasibility Study, tender a System Impact Study Agreement pursuant to which the 
Eligible Customer shall agree to reimburse the Transmission Provider for the required System 
Impact Study.  For a Completed Application to retain its Queue Position, the Eligible Customer 
(i) shall execute the System Impact Study Agreement and it must be received by the 
Transmission Provider within thirty (30) days, and (ii) shall pay the Transmission Provider a 
$50,000 deposit which will be applied to the Eligible Customer's study cost responsibility.  If the 
Eligible Customer elects not to execute the System Impact Study Agreement, its Completed 
Application shall be deemed terminated and withdrawn, and its deposit provided pursuant to 
Tariff, Part II, section 17.3 shall be returned, with interest. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.2 Upgrade Requests: 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 1 
204.2 Upgrade Requests: 
 
204.2.1  Upgrade Requests pursuant to Section 7.8 of Schedule 1 of the Operating   
 Agreement 
 
Upon completion of the Upgrade Feasibility Study, the Transmission Provider shall tender to the 
affected Upgrade Customer a System Impact Study Agreement. For an Upgrade Request to 
retain its assigned Queue Position pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, Preamble, section 201, within 30 
days of receiving the tendered System Impact Study Agreement, the Upgrade Customer (i) shall 
execute the System Impact Study Agreement and return it to the Transmission Provider, (ii) shall 
remit to Transmission Provider all past due amounts of the actual Upgrade Feasibility Study 
costs exceeding the Upgrade Feasibility Study deposit fee contained in Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart A, section 36.3, if any, and (iii) shall pay the Transmission Provider a deposit of 
$50,000. If a terminated and withdrawn Upgrade Request was to be included in a System Impact 
Study evaluating more than one New Service Request, then the costs of the System Impact Study 
shall be redetermined and reallocated among the remaining participating New Service Customers 
as specified in this section 204. 
 
204.2.2  Upgrade Requests for Merchant Network Upgrades 
 
After receiving an Upgrade Request for a Merchant Network Upgrade, the Transmission 
Provider shall acknowledge receipt of the Upgrade Request, pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, Subpart 
A, section 204.2.2.1. The Transmission Provider shall determine whether the Upgrade Request 
includes: (i) the substation or transmission line or lines where the upgrade(s) will be made; (ii) 
the nominal capability or increase in capability (in MW or MVA) of the proposed Merchant 
Network Upgrade; and (iii) the planned date the proposed Merchant Network Upgrade will be in 
service, such date to be no more than seven (7) years from the date the request is received by the 
Transmission Provider, unless the Interconnection Customer demonstrates that engineering, 
permitting, and construction of the Merchant Network Upgrade will take more than seven (7) 
years.  
 
The Transmission Provider shall maintain on the Transmission Provider’s website a list of all 
Upgrade Requests that identifies (A) in megawatts the potential nominal capability or increase in 
capability; (B) the station or transmission line or lines where the upgrade(s) will be made; (C) the 
proposed in-service date; (D) the status of the Upgrade Request, including its Queue Position; 
(E) the availability of any studies related to the Upgrade Request; (F) the date of the Upgrade 
Request; and (G) for each Upgrade Request that has not resulted in a completed upgrade, an 
explanation of why it was not completed. This list will not disclose the identity of the 
Interconnection Customer, except as otherwise provided in Tariff, Part VI.  The list and the 
priority of Upgrade Requests shall be included on the website as part of the New Services 
Queue. 
 
204.2.2.1  Acknowledgement of Upgrade Request for Merchant Network Upgrades 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.2 Upgrade Requests: 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 2 
The Transmission Provider shall acknowledge receipt (electronically when available to all 
parties, otherwise written) of the Upgrade Request within five (5) Business Days after receipt of 
the Upgrade Request. 
 
204.2.2.2  Deficiencies in Upgrade Request for Merchant Network Upgrades 
 
An Upgrade Request will not be considered a valid request if Interconnection Customer has 
failed to pay any outstanding invoices related to prior Queue Requests submitted pursuant to 
Tariff, Part IV or Tariff, Part VI by the Interconnection Customer and until all information 
required under Attachment EE is able to be studied by the Transmission Provider.  If an Upgrade 
Request fails to meet the requirements, except as provided below regarding the deposit, or is in 
arrears as described above, the Transmission Provider shall use Reasonable Efforts consistent 
with the volume of the New Services Queue to notify the Interconnection Customer 
(electronically when available to all parties, otherwise written) within fifteen (15) Business Days 
of receipt of the initial Upgrade Request.  If Transmission Provider is unable to provide a 
deficiency review within fifteen Business Days from receipt of the initial Upgrade Request, 
Transmission Provider shall use Reasonable Efforts to complete and issue the deficiency review 
to the Interconnection Customer as soon thereafter as practicable, but, in no event shall the 
Transmission Provider’s response herein serve as a basis to delaying Transmission Provider’s 
compliance with the Interconnection Feasibility Study provisions of the Tariff, Part IV, Subpart 
A, section 36.2, or the Upgrade Feasibility Study provisions of the Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, 
section 36.3.  Such notice shall explain that the Upgrade Request does not constitute a valid 
request and the reasons for such failure to meet the applicable requirements.  Interconnection 
Customer shall provide the additional information that the Transmission Provider’s notice 
identifies as needed to constitute a valid request and shall make any payments on any 
outstanding invoices within ten (10) Business Days after receipt of such notice.  Upon timely 
correction of the deficiency, the Upgrade Request shall be assigned a Queue Position under 
Tariff, Part VI, Preamble, section 201 as of the date that the Transmission Provider first received 
the request.  In the event the Interconnection Customer fails to provide the further information 
and make payments on any outstanding invoices required by the Transmission Provider’s 
deficiency notice under this section 204.2.2.2, its Upgrade Request shall be deemed to be 
terminated and withdrawn.  Notwithstanding the above, the Interconnection Customer must 
submit its deposit at the time it submits its Upgrade Request.  Failure to do so will result in 
rejection of the Upgrade Request. 
 
The Interconnection Customer must submit a complete and fully executed Upgrade Request 
(Tariff, Attachment EE) to the Transmission Provider by March 10 for the New Services Queue 
ending March 31, and by September 10 for the New Services Queue ending September 30.  No 
Upgrade Requests shall be accepted for the relevant New Services Queue after such dates. 
 
204.2.2.3  Scoping Meeting 
 
Transmission Provider shall provide each Interconnection Customer proposing Merchant 
Network Upgrades with an opportunity for a scoping meeting among the Transmission Provider, 
the prospective Interconnected Transmission Owner(s) and the Interconnection Customer.  The 
purpose of the scoping meeting will be to confirm all parties’ understanding of the proposed 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.2 Upgrade Requests: 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 3 
Upgrade Request and confirm the expectation for project completion or, if for acceleration of a 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan Network Upgrade, the feasibility of the acceleration. 
After receipt of a valid Upgrade Request proposing Merchant Network Upgrades, the 
Transmission Provider shall offer to arrange for the scoping meeting, and shall provide a 
minimum of three (3) suggested meeting dates and times for the scoping meeting. The scoping 
meeting shall be held, or waived by mutual agreement of the parties within forty-five (45) days 
after receipt of a valid Upgrade Request, if the Upgrade Request is received in the first four 
calendar months of the current New Services Queue; or within thirty (30) days if the Upgrade 
Request is received within the fifth calendar month of the current New Services Queue; or within 
twenty (20) days if the Upgrade Request is received in the sixth calendar month of the date of the 
beginning of the current New Services Queue. The Interconnection Customer may choose to 
divide the scoping meeting into two sessions, one between the Transmission Provider and 
Interconnection Customer and one among the Transmission Provider, the Interconnection 
Customer and the prospective Interconnected Transmission Owner.  Such meetings may be held 
consecutively on the same day.  Scoping meetings may be held in person, by telephone or video 
conference.  In the event the Interconnection Customer fails to waive or complete the scoping 
meeting requirement, its Upgrade Request shall be deemed terminated or withdrawn.  
Interconnection Customer may reduce its Upgrade Request within ten (10) Business Days after 
the scoping meeting.  Any reduction made within this ten (10) Business Day period shall not be a 
Material Modification; however, the reduction may not result in the project’s MW capability 
being equal to or less than zero. 
 
204.2.2.4  Coordination with Affected Systems 
 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.1.6 shall apply to Upgrade Requests for Merchant Network 
Upgrades. 
 
204.2.2.5  Base Case Data 
 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.1.7 shall apply to Upgrade Requests for Merchant Network 
Upgrades. 
 
204.2.2.6  System Impact Study Agreement 
 
Upon the Transmission Provider assigning the Upgrade Request a Queue Position per Tariff, Part 
VI, Subpart A, section 204.2.2, for Upgrade Requests proposing Merchant Network Upgrades, 
and, if required, completing a scoping meeting per Tariff, Part VI, Subpart A, section 204.2.2.3, 
Transmission Provider shall tender a System Impact Study Agreement.  For an Upgrade Request 
associated with a Merchant Network Upgrade request to retain its Queue Position, the 
Interconnection Customer (i) shall execute the System Impact Study Agreement and return it to 
the Transmission Provider within thirty (30) days, and (ii) the $50,000 deposit provided with 
Tariff, Attachment EE will be applied to the Interconnection Customer’s study cost 
responsibility.  If the Interconnection Customer elects not to execute the System Impact Study 
Agreement, its Upgrade Request shall be deemed terminated and withdrawn. Any remaining 
Tariff, Attachment EE deposit will be refunded. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.2 Upgrade Requests: 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 4 
204.2.2.7 Modifications of Upgrade Requests for Merchant Network Upgrades After the 
System Impact Study Agreement, but Prior to Executing an Upgrade 
Construction Service Agreement 
 
After the System Impact Study Agreement is executed and prior to execution of the Upgrade 
Construction Service Agreement, an Interconnection Customer proposing Merchant Network 
Upgrades may modify its project to reduce the size of the project as provided in Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart A, section 36.2A.2. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.3 Interconnection Requests: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
204.3 Interconnection Requests: 
 
Upon completion of the Interconnection Feasibility Study, the Transmission Provider shall 
tender to the affected Interconnection Customer a System Impact Study Agreement.  For an 
Interconnection Request to retain its assigned Queue Position pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, 
Preamble, section 201, within 30 days of receiving the tendered System Impact Study 
Agreement, the Interconnection Customer (i) shall execute the System Impact Study Agreement 
and it must be received by the Transmission Provider, (ii) shall remit to Transmission Provider 
all past due amounts of the actual Feasibility Study costs exceeding the Feasibility Study deposit 
fee contained in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, sections 36.1.02, and 36.1.03, and Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart G, sections 110.1, 111.1, and 112.1, if any, (iii) shall pay the Transmission Provider a 
deposit as provided in section 204.3A below, (iv) shall identify the Point(s) of Interconnection, 
and (v) in the case of a Generation Interconnection Customer, shall (A) demonstrate that it has 
made an initial application for the necessary air emission permits, if any, for its proposed 
generation, (B) specify whether it desires to interconnect its generation to the Transmission 
System as a Capacity Resource or an Energy Resource, (C) provide required machine modeling 
data as specified in the PJM Manuals, (D) in the case of a wind generation facility, provide a 
detailed electrical design specification and other data (including system layout data) as required 
by the Transmission Provider for completion of the System Impact Study, and (E) notify the 
Transmission Provider if it seeks to use Capacity Interconnection Rights in accordance with 
Tariff, Part VI, Subpart C, section 230.3.3; or, (vi) in the case of a Transmission Interconnection 
Customer, shall (A) provide Transmission Provider with evidence of an ownership interest in, or 
right to acquire or control, the site(s) where major equipment (e.g., a new transformer or D.C. 
converter stations) would be installed, such as a deed, option agreement, lease, or other similar 
document acceptable to the Transmission Provider; (B) demonstrate in a manner acceptable to 
Transmission Provider that it holds rights to use (or an option to obtain such rights) any existing 
facilities of the Transmission System that are necessary for construction of the proposed 
Merchant Transmission Facilities; and (C) provide required modeling data as specified in the 
PJM Manuals.  If an Interconnection Customer fails to comply with any of the applicable listed 
requirements, its Interconnection Request shall be deemed terminated and withdrawn, however 
in the event that the information required per (v)(C), (v)(D), or (vi)(C) above is provided and 
deemed to be deficient by the Transmission Provider, Interconnection Customer may provide 
additional information acceptable to the Transmission Provider within 10 Business Days.  
Failure of the Interconnection Customer to provide information identified as being deficient 
within 10 Business Days shall result in the Interconnection Request being terminated and 
withdrawn.  If a terminated and withdrawn Interconnection Request was to be included in a 
System Impact Study evaluating more than one New Service Request, then the costs of the 
System Impact Study shall be redetermined and reallocated among the remaining participating 
New Service Customers as specified in this section 204. 
 
204.3A  Deposits for Interconnection Customers 
 
1. Provided that the maximum total deposit amount for a System Impact Study shall 
be $300,000 regardless of the size of the proposed Customer Facility, a System 
Impact Study deposit shall be submitted to Transmission Provider, as follows: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.3 Interconnection Requests: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
a. For a proposed Customer Facility that is 20 MW or greater, a deposit of 
$500 for each MW requested; or 
 
b. For a proposed Customer Facility that is 2 MW or greater, but less than 20 
MW, a deposit of $10,000; or 
 
c. For a proposed Customer Facility that is less than 2 MW, a deposit of 
$5,000. 
 
2. 10% of each total System Impact Study deposit amount is non-refundable.  Any 
unused non-refundable deposit monies shall be returned to the Interconnection 
Customer upon Initial Operation.  However, if, before reaching Initial Operation, 
the Interconnection Customer withdraws its Interconnection Request or the 
Interconnection Request is otherwise deemed rejected or terminated and 
withdrawn, any unused portion of the non-refundable deposit monies shall be 
used to fund: 
 
a. Any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices due to Transmission Provider, 
Interconnected Transmission Owner(s) and/or third party contractors, as 
applicable, as a result of any failure of the Interconnection Customer to 
pay actual costs for the Interconnection Request and/or associated Queue 
Position; and/or 
 
b. Any restudies required as a result of the rejection, termination and/or 
withdrawal of such Interconnection Request; and/or 
 
c. Any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices related to prior Interconnection 
Requests by the Interconnection Customer. 
 
3. 90% of each total System Impact Study deposit amount is refundable, and the 
Transmission Provider shall utilize, in no particular order, the refundable portion 
of each total System Impact Study deposit amount to cover the following: 
 
a. The cost of the System Impact Study acceptance review; and 
 
b. The dollar amount of the Interconnection Customer’s cost responsibility 
for the System Impact Study; and 
 
c. If the System Impact Study Request is deemed to be modified (pursuant to 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2A), rejected, terminated and/or 
withdrawn during the deficiency review and/or deficiency response 
period, as described further below, or during the System Impact Study 
period, the refundable deposit money shall be applied to cover all of the 
costs incurred by the Transmission Provider up to the point of such request 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.3 Interconnection Requests: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
being modified, rejected, terminated and/or withdrawn, and any remaining 
refundable deposit monies shall be applied to cover: 
 
i. The costs of any restudies required as a result of the modification, 
rejection, termination and/or withdrawal of such request; and/or 
 
ii. Any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices due to Transmission 
Provider, Interconnected Transmission Owner(s) and/or third party 
contractors, as applicable, as a result of any failure of the 
Interconnection Customer to pay actual costs for the System 
Impact Study Request and/or associated Queue Position; and/or 
 
iii. Any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices related to prior New Service 
Requests and/or Interconnection Requests by such customer. 
 
iv. If any refundable deposit monies remain after all costs and 
outstanding monies owed, as described in this section, are covered, 
such remaining refundable deposit monies shall be returned to the 
customer in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  
 
4. Upon completion of the System Impact Study, the Transmission Provider shall 
apply any remaining refundable deposit monies toward: 
 
a. The cost responsibility of the Interconnection Customer for any other 
studies conducted for the Interconnection Request; and/or 
 
b. Any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices related to prior New Service 
Requests and/or Interconnection Requests by such Interconnection 
Customer. 
 
5. If any refundable deposit monies remain after the System Impact Study is 
complete and any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices related to prior New Service Requests 
and/or Interconnection Requests by such Interconnection Customer have been 
paid, such remaining deposit monies shall be returned to the Interconnection 
Customer. 
 
6. The Interconnection Customer must submit the total required deposit amount with 
the System Impact Study Request.  If the Interconnection Customer fails to 
submit the total required deposit amount with the System Impact Study Request, 
the System Impact Study Request shall be deemed to be terminated and 
withdrawn. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.3 Interconnection Requests: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 4 
7. Deposit monies are non-transferrable.  Under no circumstances may refundable or 
non-refundable deposit monies for a specific Interconnection Request, Upgrade 
Request or Queue Position be applied in whole or in part to a different New 
Service Request, Interconnection Request or Queue Position. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.1 Coordination: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
205.1 Coordination: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall coordinate, to the extent practical, all System Impact Studies 
conducted pursuant to this section 205 for New Service Customers. Such coordination may 
involve, at the Transmission Provider’s sole discretion, combining System Impact Studies for 
multiple New Service Requests into one study.  Transmission Provider shall describe in the PJM 
Manuals the process by which it will coordinate System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies 
pertaining to different types of New Service Requests. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.2 Scope of Studies: 
Effective Date: 7/20/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-003 - Page 1 
205.2 Scope of Studies: 
 
The System Impact Study is a comprehensive regional analysis of the effect of adding to the 
Transmission System the new facilities and services contemporaneously proposed by New 
Service Customers and an evaluation of their impact on deliverability to the aggregate of PJM 
Network Load.  The System Impact Study identifies the system constraints, identified with 
specificity by transmission element or flowgate, relating to each proposed new project and 
service included therein and the Attachment Facilities, Merchant Network Upgrades, Direct 
Assignment Facilities, Local Upgrades, Network Upgrades, and/or Contingent Facilities required 
to accommodate such projects.  The System Impact Study provides refined and comprehensive 
estimates of cost responsibility and construction lead times for new facilities and system 
upgrades. The Transmission Provider, in its sole discretion, may determine to evaluate in the 
same System Impact Study two or more New Service Requests relating to interconnections, 
Upgrade Requests, or proposed new transmission services where the associated increases in 
service or capability are in electrical proximity to each other.  The scope of the System Impact 
Study may include (a) an assessment of sub-area import deliverability, (b) an assessment of sub-
area export deliverability, (c) an assessment of project related short circuit duty issues, (d) a 
contingency analysis consistent with NERC’s and each Applicable Regional Entity’s reliability 
criteria, (e) an assessment of regional transmission upgrades that most effectively meet identified 
needs, and (f) an analysis to determine cost allocation responsibility for required facilities and 
upgrades.  In addition, each System Impact Study shall identify the system constraints, identified 
with specificity by transmission element or flowgate in accordance with the distribution factor 
effect, megawatt contribution or fault duty contribution, relating to the New Service Requests 
being evaluated in the study and, as applicable to each included request, the redispatch options, 
additional Direct Assignment Facilities, necessary Merchant Network Upgrades, Attachment 
Facilities, Local Upgrades, Network Upgrades and/or Contingent Facilities necessary to 
accommodate such request.  For purposes of determining necessary Interconnection Facilities 
and Network Upgrades, the System Impact Study shall consider the level of Interconnection 
Service requested by the Interconnection Customer unless otherwise required to study the full 
electrical generating capability of the Generating Facility due to safety or reliability concerns.  
The System Impact Study report shall include the list and facility loading of all newly-identified 
reliability criteria violations or contributions to a previously-identified reliability criteria 
violation specific to the New Service Request.  The System Impact Study shall refine and more 
comprehensively estimate each New Service Customer's cost responsibility (determined in 
accordance with Tariff, Part VI, Subpart B, section 217) for necessary facilities and upgrades 
than the estimates provided in the Interconnection Feasibility Study or the Firm Transmission 
Feasibility Study, if applicable. In the event that more than one New Service Request is 
evaluated in a study, the Transmission Provider may provide a series of estimates to each 
participating New Service Customer to reflect the customer's estimated cost responsibility based 
on varying assumptions regarding the number of New Service Customers that decide to continue 
their New Service Requests after completion of the System Impact Study. A description of the 
Transmission Provider’s methodology for completing a System Impact Study for Completed 
Applications is provided in Tariff, Attachment D.  If applicable, the System Impact Study for a 
Transmission Interconnection Customer shall also include a preliminary estimate of the 
Incremental Deliverability Rights associated with the customer’s proposed Merchant 
Transmission Facilities. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.2 Scope of Studies: 
Effective Date: 7/20/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-003 - Page 2 
 
205.2.1 Contingent Facilities 
 
Transmission Provider shall identify the Contingent Facilities to be provided to Interconnection 
Customer in the System Impact Study by reviewing unbuilt Interconnection Facilities and/or 
Network Upgrades (including those still subject to cost allocation in accordance with the PJM 
Manuals) associated with another Interconnection Customer with a higher queue priority upon 
which the Interconnection Customer’s cost, timing and study findings are dependent and, if 
delayed or not built, could cause a need for interconnection restudies of the Interconnection 
Request or reassessment of the unbuilt Interconnection Facilities and/or Network Upgrades.  The 
method for identifying Contingent Facilities shall be sufficiently transparent to determine why a 
specific Contingent Facility was identified and how it relates to the Interconnection Request.  
Transmission Provider shall include the list of the Contingent Facilities in the System Impact 
Study, Facilities Study, if applicable, and Interconnection Service Agreement, including why a 
specific Contingent Facility was identified and how it relates to the Interconnection Request.  
Transmission Provider shall also provide, upon request of the Interconnection Customer, the 
estimated Interconnection Facility and/or Network Upgrade costs and estimated in-service 
completion time of each identified Contingent Facility when this information is readily available 
and non-commercially sensitive. 
 
205.2.2 Minimum Thresholds to Identify Contingent Facilities 
 
205.2.2.1 Load Flow Violations 
 
Load flow violations will be identified based on the following criteria: (i) the first New Service 
Request to load a facility to over 100 percent of the rating in the applicable model; and (ii) an 
impact on a previously identified overload of at least 5 percent distribution factor (DFAX) or 
contributing at least 5 percent of the facility rating in the applicable model. 
 
205.2.2.2 Short Circuit Violations 
 
Short circuit violations will be identified based on the following criteria: (i) the first New Service 
Request to load any facility to over 100 percent of the rating in the applicable model; and (ii) any 
contribution to a previously overloaded facility where the New Service Request increases the 
fault current impact by 3 percent or greater of the rating in the applicable model. 
 
205.2.2.3 Stability and Dynamic Criteria Violations 
 
Stability and dynamic criteria violations will be identified based on the following criteria: (i) the 
first New Service Request to cause a new stability violation; and (ii) any contribution to a 
previously identified stability violation. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.3 Timing of Studies: 
Effective Date: 10/31/2016 - Docket #: ER16-2518-000 - Page 1 
205.3 Timing of Studies: 
 
 
The following provision shall apply to all New Service Requests submitted on May 1, 2012 
through and including October 31, 2016: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall conduct System Impact Studies each year commencing on (i) 
June 1, for New Service Requests received between May 1 and October 31 of the previous year, 
(ii) December 1, for New Service Requests received between November 1 of the previous year, 
and April 30 of the same year.  The Transmission Provider shall use due diligence to complete 
the System Impact Studies within 120 days of the date the study commences.  In the event that 
the Transmission Provider is unable to complete a System Impact Study within the applicable 
indicated time period, it shall so notify the affected New Service Customers and the affected 
Transmission Owner(s) and provide an estimated completion date, along with an explanation of 
the reasons why additional time is needed to complete the study.  The Transmission Provider 
shall use the same due diligence in completing the System Impact Study for a New Service 
Customer as it uses when completing studies for a Transmission Owner. 
 
The following provision shall apply to all New Service Requests submitted on November 1, 
2016 through and including March 31, 2017: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall conduct System Impact Studies commencing on November 1, 
for New Service Requests received between October 1 of the previous year, and March 31 of the 
same year.  The Transmission Provider shall use due diligence to complete the System Impact 
Studies within 120 days of the date the study commences.  In the event that the Transmission 
Provider is unable to complete a System Impact Study within the applicable indicated time 
period, it shall so notify the affected New Service Customers and the affected Transmission 
Owner(s) and provide an estimated completion date, along with an explanation of the reasons 
why additional time is needed to complete the study.  The Transmission Provider shall use the 
same due diligence in completing the System Impact Study for a New Service Customer as it 
uses when completing studies for a Transmission Owner. 
 
The following provision shall apply to all New Service Requests submitted on or after April 1, 
2017: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall conduct System Impact Studies each year commencing on (i) 
May 1, for New Service Requests received between April 1 and September 30 of the previous 
year, (ii) November 1, for New Service Requests received between October 1 of the previous 
year, and March 31 of the same year.  The Transmission Provider shall use due diligence to 
complete the System Impact Studies within 120 days of the date the study commences.  In the 
event that the Transmission Provider is unable to complete a System Impact Study within the 
applicable indicated time period, it shall so notify the affected New Service Customers and the 
affected Transmission Owner(s) and provide an estimated completion date, along with an 
explanation of the reasons why additional time is needed to complete the study.  The 
Transmission Provider shall use the same due diligence in completing the System Impact Study 
for a New Service Customer as it uses when completing studies for a Transmission Owner. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.4 Completion of Studies: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
205.4 Completion of Studies: 
 
205.4.1 Notice to Eligible Customers: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall notify each Eligible Customer whose Completed Application 
for new transmission service was included in the System Impact Study upon completion of the 
System Impact Study whether the Transmission System will be adequate to accommodate all or 
part of the request for service. In the event that the System Impact Study indicates that no new 
transmission facilities or upgrades are needed to accommodate the requested service, in order for 
the Completed Application to retain its Queue Position, within sixty (60) days of completion of 
the System Impact Study, the Eligible Customer must execute a Service Agreement or request 
the filing of an unexecuted Service Agreement pursuant to Tariff, Part II, section 15.3 or Tariff, 
Part III, section 32.4, as applicable, or the Completed Application shall be deemed terminated 
and withdrawn. 
 
205.4.2 Materials for Customers: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall provide a copy of the System Impact Study and, to the extent 
consistent with the Office of the Interconnection's confidentiality obligations in Operating 
Agreement, section 18.17, related work papers to all New Service Customers that had New 
Service Requests evaluated in the study and to the affected Transmission Owner(s). 
 
205.4.3 Availability of Information: 
 
Upon completion of the System Impact Study, the Transmission Provider shall post on the 
Transmission Provider's OASIS (i) the existence of the study, (ii) the New Service Customers 
that had New Service Requests evaluated in the study, (iii) the location and size in megawatts of 
each New Service Customer's project or requested rights, as applicable, and (iv) each New 
Service Customer's Queue Position.  The Transmission Provider also shall, to the extent required 
by the Commission's regulations, make the completed System Impact Study publicly available 
upon request. 
 
205.4.4 Meeting with Transmission Provider: 
 
At the New Service Customer’s request, Transmission Provider, the affected Transmission 
Owner(s) and the New Service Customer shall meet to discuss the results of the System Impact 
Study.  Such meeting may occur in person or by telephone or video conference. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.5 Re-Study: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
205.5 Re-Study: 
 
If a re-study of the System Impact Study is required due to a higher queued New Service Request 
dropping out of the queue, a modification of a higher queued New Service Request subject to 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2A, or re-designation of the Point of Interconnection of an 
Interconnection Request pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, sections 36.2.1 or 36.2A, the 
Transmission Provider shall notify the affected New Service Customer(s) in writing explaining 
the reason for the re-study. Transmission Provider shall use due diligence to complete such re-
study within sixty (60) calendar days from the date of the notice.  Any cost of re-study shall be 
borne by the New Service Customer(s) being restudied. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 206 Facilities Study Agreement: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
206  Facilities Study Agreement: 
 