Attachment H-33A, and the Formula Rate Template in Attachment H-33B. 
 
4. The formula rate in this attachment shall be effective until amended by NextEra Energy 
Transmission MidAtlantic, Inc., another NEET PJM Entity, or modified by the Commission. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 1 
Attachment H-33A 
NextEra Energy Transmission PJM Entities 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION 
PROTOCOLS 
 
Section I. Applicability 
 
 The following procedures shall apply to the calculation of the actual net revenue 
requirements, True-Up Adjustments, and projected net revenue requirements of NextEra 
Energy Transmission MidAtlantic, Inc.’s (“NEET MidAtlantic”), and any other wholly-
owned subsidiary of NextEra Energy Transmission, LLC, that operates in the PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) Region and that owns, or proposes to own, transmission 
facilities that have been, or will be, turned over to the functional control of PJM and 
whose costs are recoverable under the PJM Tariff (“NEET PJM Entity”). 
 
The NEET PJM Entities shall use either a January - December rate year or a June - May 
rate year, as specified below: 
 
NEET PJM Entity Formula Rate Rate Year 
NextEra Energy 
Transmission 
MidAtlantic, Inc. 
H-33B(1) June to May 
   
   
 
Section II. Annual True-Up and Projected Net Revenue Requirement 
 
A. On or before May 15 of each year, each NEET PJM Entity shall determine its 
Annual True-Up in accordance with the formula rate for each NEET PJM Entity 
and Section VII of these protocols, to derive a True-Up Adjustment to be 
included in projected net revenue requirement for each NEET PJM Entity for the 
subsequent rate year.   
 
B. On or before June 1 of each year, each NEET PJM Entity using a January – 
December rate year shall provide its Annual True-Up, actual net revenue 
requirement, and True-Up Adjustment to PJM and cause such information to be 
posted on the PJM website and OASIS.  For NEET PJM Entities using a June - 
May rate year, such information shall be provided to PJM on or before May 15 
of each year.  Within five (5) days of such posting, PJM shall provide notice of 
such posting via an email exploder list.  Interested Parties can subscribe to the 
PJM exploder list on the PJM website.  For purposes of these protocols, the term 
Interested Party includes, but is not limited to, customers under the PJM Tariff, 
state utility regulatory commissions, consumer advocacy agencies, and state 
attorneys general. 
 
C. On or before September 30 of each year, each NEET PJM Entity using a January 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 2 
– December rate year shall provide its projected net revenue requirement to PJM 
and cause such information to be posted on the PJM website and OASIS.  For 
NEET PJM Entities using a June to May rate year, such information shall be 
provided to PJM on or before May 15 of each year.  Within five (5) days of 
posting of the projected net revenue requirement, PJM shall provide notice of 
such posting to an email exploder list.  In the event the NEET PJM Entity’s 
formula rate is first included in the PJM Tariff such that the first projected net 
revenue requirement cannot be provided to PJM by May 15 or September 30, as 
applicable, each NEET PJM Entity will nevertheless prepare a projection of its 
net revenue requirement for the first Rate Year using the most recent information 
available, and the projection will be posted on the PJM website and OASIS at 
least sixty (60) days prior to the rates becoming effective.  The projected net 
revenue requirement for a partial first Rate Year will reflect the NEET PJM 
Entity’s net revenue requirement only over the remaining months during the 
partial Rate Year.  The NEET PJM Entities will conduct a meeting with 
Interested Parties on the projected net revenue requirement for the first Rate 
Year between twenty (20) to forty (40) days after posting.  Notice of the 
customer meeting, including the time, date, location, and remote access 
information, shall be posted on the PJM website and OASIS and distributed to 
the e-mail exploder list no less than seven (7) days prior to such meeting.   
 
D. If the date for posting the Annual True-Up or the projected net revenue 
requirement falls on a weekend or a holiday recognized by the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission (“FERC” or “Commission”), then the posting shall be 
due on the next business day.  The date on which posting of the Annual True-Up 
occurs shall be that year’s “Publication Date.”  Any delay in the Publication 
Date or in the posting of the projected net revenue requirement will result in an 
equivalent extension of time for the submission of information requests 
discussed in Section III of these protocols. 
 
E. The Annual True-Up shall: 
 
1. Include a workable data-populated formula rate template and underlying 
workpapers in native format with all formulas and links intact; 
 
2. Be based on each NEET PJM Entity’s FERC Form No. 1 for the prior 
calendar year; 
 
3. Provide the formula rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as 
supporting documentation and workpapers for data that are used in the 
Annual True-Up that are not otherwise available in the FERC Form No. 
1; 
 
4. Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties  to replicate 
the calculation of the Annual True-Up  results from the FERC Form No. 1 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 3 
; 
 
5. Identify any changes in the formula references (page and line 
numbers) to the FERC Form No. 1; 
 
6. Identify all material adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data in 
determining formula inputs, including relevant footnotes to the FERC 
Form No. 1 and any adjustments not shown in the  FERC Form No. 1; 
 
7. Provide underlying data for formula rate inputs that provide greater 
granularity than is required for the FERC Form No. 1; 
 
8. With respect to any change in accounting that affects inputs to the formula 
rate or the resulting charges billed under the formula rate (“Accounting 
Change”): 
 
a. Identify Accounting Changes, including 
 
i. the initial implementation of an accounting standard or 
policy; 
 
ii. the initial implementation of accounting practices for 
unusual or unconventional items where FERC has not 
provided specific accounting direction; 
 
iii. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that 
impact the True-Up Adjustment calculation; 
 
iv. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies 
that change prior estimates; and 
 
v. changes to income tax elections; 
 
b. Identify items included in the Annual True-Up at an amount 
other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
 
c. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the 
previous year and explain the effect of the accounting for such 
transaction(s) on inputs to the Annual True-Up; 
 
d. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to items II.E.8.a - 
II.E.8.c of these protocols, a narrative explanation of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 4 
individual impact of such changes on the True-Up Adjustment. 
 
9. Provide for the applicable Rate Year the following information related to 
affiliate cost allocation: (1) a detailed description of the methodologies 
used to allocate and directly assign costs between each NEET PJM Entity 
and its affiliates by service category or function, including any changes to 
such cost allocation methodologies from the prior year and the reasons and 
justifications for those changes; and (2) the magnitude of such costs that 
have been allocated or directly assigned between each NEET PJM Entity 
and each affiliate by service category or function. 
 
F. The projected net revenue requirement shall: 
 
1.  Include a workable data-populated formula rate template and underlying 
workpapers in native format with all formulas and links intact; 
 
2.  Provide the formula rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as 
supporting documentation and workpapers for data that are used in the 
projected net revenue requirement; 
 
3.  Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the 
calculation of the projected net revenue requirement; and  
 
4.  With respect to any Accounting Change: 
 
a.  Identify any Accounting Changes, including 
 
i.  the initial implementation of an accounting standard or 
policy; 
 
ii.  the initial implementation of accounting practices for 
unusual or unconventional items where FERC has not 
provided specific accounting direction; 
 
iii.  correction of errors and prior period adjustments that 
impact the projected net revenue requirement calculation; 
 
iv.  the implementation of new estimation methods or policies 
that change prior estimates;  
 
v.  changes to income tax elections; 
 
b.  Identify items included in the projected net revenue requirement 
at an amount other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value 
adjustments); 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 5 
c.  Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the 
previous year and explain the effect of the accounting for such 
transaction(s) on inputs to the projected net revenue requirement; 
and 
 
d. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to items II.F.4.a - 
II.F.4.c of these protocols, a narrative explanation of the 
individual impact of such changes on the projected net revenue 
requirement. 
 
G.  A NEET PJM Entity shall hold an open meeting among Interested Parties 
(“Annual True-Up Meeting”) no sooner than twenty (20) days after the 
Publication Date. For NEET PJM Entities using a January – December rate year, 
the Annual True-Up Meeting shall occur no later than September 1, and for 
NEET PJM Entities using a June – May rate year, the Annual True-Up Meeting 
shall occur no later than June 15. The NEET PJM Entities will make the Annual 
True-Up Meeting remotely accessible.  No less than seven (7) days prior to such 
Annual True-Up Meeting, the NEET PJM Entities shall provide notice on PJM’s 
internet website and OASIS of the time, date, location, and remote access 
information for the Annual True-Up Meeting and PJM shall provide notice of 
such meeting to an email exploder list.  The Annual True-Up Meeting shall (i) 
permit each NEET PJM Entity to explain and clarify its Annual True-Up and 
True-Up Adjustment and (ii) provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek 
information and clarifications from each NEET PJM Entity about the Annual 
True-Up and True-Up Adjustment. 
 
H.  A NEET PJM Entity shall hold an open meeting among Interested Parties 
(“Annual Projected Rate Meeting”) no sooner than twenty (20) days after the 
date that the projected net revenue requirement is posted to the PJM website and 
OASIS (as described in Section II.C of these protocols).  For NEET PJM 
Entities using a January – December rate year, the Annual Projected Rate 
Meeting shall occur no later than October 31, and for NEET PJM Entities using 
a June – May rate year, the Annual Projected Rate Meeting shall occur no later 
than June 15.  The NEET PJM Entities will make the Annual Projected Rate 
Meeting remotely accessible.  No less than seven (7) days prior to such Annual 
Projected Rate Meeting, the NEET PJM Entities shall provide notice on PJM’s 
internet website and OASIS of the time, date, location, and remote access 
information for the Annual Projected Rate Meeting and PJM shall provide notice 
of such meeting to an email exploder list.  The Annual Projected Rate Meeting 
shall (i) permit each NEET PJM Entity to explain and clarify its projected net 
revenue requirement and (ii) provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek 
information and clarifications from the NEET PJM Entities about the projected 
net revenue requirements. 
 
I. Transmission owners with transmission projects that utilize a regional or inter-
regional cost sharing mechanism shall endeavor to hold a joint informational 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 6 
meeting to enable all interested parties to understand how those transmission 
owners are implementing their formula rates for cost recovery of such projects.  
The NEET PJM Entities will make the joint informational meeting remotely 
accessible.  Notice of joint informational meetings, including the time, date, 
location, and remote access information, shall be posted on the PJM website and 
OASIS and distributed to the email exploder list no less than seven (7) days prior 
to such meetings.  Each NEET PJM Entity will participate in joint informational 
meetings once it begins development of a project for which costs are to be 
regionally or inter-regionally allocated. 
 
Section III. Information Exchange Procedures 
 
Each Annual True-Up and projected net revenue requirement  shall be subject 
to the following information exchange procedures (“Information Exchange 
Procedures”): 
 
A. Interested Parties shall have one hundred and eighty (180) days following 
Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of the 
NEET PJM Entities or by FERC order) to serve reasonable information and 
document requests on a NEET PJM Entity (“Information Exchange Period”). If 
the due date for information and document requests falls on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for submitting all information and 
document requests shall be extended to the next business day. Such information 
and document requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine: 
 
1. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
2. whether the Annual True-Up or projected net revenue 
requirement fails to include data properly recorded in accordance 
with these protocols; 
3. the proper application of the formula rate and procedures in these 
protocols; 
4. the accuracy of data and consistency with the formula rate of the 
calculations shown in the Annual True-Up or projected net 
revenue requirement; 
5. the prudence of actual costs and expenditures, including 
procurement methods and cost control methodologies;  
 
6. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of 
Accounts or FERC Form No. 1; or  
 
7.  any other information that may reasonably have substantive effect 
on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the formula. 
 
The information and document requests shall not otherwise be directed to 
ascertaining whether the formula rate is just and reasonable.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 7 
 
B. A NEET PJM Entity shall make a good faith effort to respond to information 
and document requests within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such 
requests. The NEET PJM Entity shall respond to all information and document 
requests by no later than two hundred and twenty (220) days following the Publication 
Date, unless the Information Exchange Period is extended by the applicable NEET 
PJM Entity or FERC.  If the last day for the NEET PJM Entity to respond falls on 
a weekend or a holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for responses to 
information requests shall be extended to the next business day.   
 
C. Each NEET PJM Entity will cause to be posted on the PJM website and OASIS 
all information requests from Interested Parties and such NEET PJM Entity’s 
response(s) to such requests; except, however, if responses to information and 
document requests include material deemed by the NEET PJM Entity to be 
confidential information, such information will not be publicly posted but will be 
made available to requesting parties pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to be 
executed by such NEET PJM Entity and the requesting party. 
 
D.  A NEET PJM Entity shall not claim that responses to information and document 
requests provided pursuant to these protocols are subject to any settlement 
privilege in any subsequent FERC proceeding addressing a NEET PJM Entity’s 
Annual True-Up or projected net revenue requirement. 
 
Section IV. Challenge Procedures 
 
A. Interested Parties shall have until two hundred and forty (240) days following 
the Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of 
the applicable NEET PJM Entity or by FERC order) to review the inputs, 
supporting explanations, allocations and calculations and to notify the applicable 
NEET PJM Entity in writing, which may be made electronically, of any specific 
Informal Challenges to the Annual True-Up or projected net revenue 
requirement.  The period of time from the Publication Date until the date that is 
two hundred and forty (240) days later shall be referred to as the Review Period.  
If the final day of the Review Period falls on a weekend or a holiday recognized 
by FERC, the deadline for submitting all Informal Challenges shall be extended 
to the next business day.  Failure to pursue an issue through an Informal 
Challenge or to lodge a Formal Challenge regarding any issue as to a given 
Annual True-Up or projected net revenue requirement shall bar pursuit of such 
issue with respect to that Annual True-Up or projected net revenue requirement 
under the challenge procedures set forth in these protocols, but shall not bar 
pursuit of such issue or the lodging of a Formal Challenge as to such issue as 
it relates to a subsequent Annual True-Up or projected net revenue requirement. 
This Section IV.A in no way shall affect a party’s rights under section 206 of the 
Federal Power Act (“FPA”) as set forth in Section IV.I of these protocols. 
 
B. A party submitting an Informal Challenge to a NEET PJM Entity must 
specify the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations, calculations, or other 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 8 
information to which it objects, and provide an appropriate explanation and 
documents to support its challenge.  A NEET PJM Entity shall make a good 
faith effort to respond to any Informal Challenge within twenty (20) business 
days of notification of such challenge. A NEET PJM Entity, and where 
applicable, PJM, shall appoint a senior representative to work with the party 
that submitted the Informal Challenge (or its representative) toward a resolution 
of the challenge. If the applicable NEET PJM Entity disagrees with such 
challenge, the NEET PJM Entity will provide the Interested Party(ies) with an 
explanation supporting the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations, 
calculations, or other information. No Informal Challenge may be submitted 
after the final day of the Review Period, and a NEET PJM Entity must respond 
to all Informal Challenges by no later than  thirty (30) days after the end of the 
Review Period, unless the Review Period is extended by the NEET PJM Entity 
or FERC.  If the end of the Review Period falls on a weekend or a holiday 
recognized by FERC, the deadline for submitting all Informal Challenges shall 
be extended to the next business day.  If the deadline for a NEET PJM Entity to 
respond to all Informal Challenges falls on a weekend or a holiday recognized by 
FERC, the deadline for responding to Informal Challenges shall be extended to 
the next business day. 
 
C. Informal Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and 
limitations in this Section IV. Formal Challenges shall be filed pursuant to these 
protocols and shall satisfy all of the following requirements. 
 
1.  A Formal Challenge shall: 
 
a.  Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate 
the filed rate formula or protocols; 
 
b.  Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed rate formula or 
protocols;   
  
c. Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues 
presented by the action or inaction as such relate to or affect the 
party filing the Formal Challenge, including: 
 
i.  The extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
 
ii. Whether the Annual True-Up or projected net revenue 
requirement fails to include data properly recorded in 
accordance with these protocols; 
 
iii.  The proper application of the formula rate and procedures 
in these protocols; 
 
iv.  The accuracy of data and consistency with the formula rate 
of the charges shown in the Annual True-Up or projected 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 9 
net revenue requirement; 
 
v.  The prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
 
vi.  The effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System 
of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1; or 
  
vii.  Any other information that may reasonably have 
substantive effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant 
to the formula.   
 
d. Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden 
(if any) created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result 
of the action or inaction; 
 
e. State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing 
Commission proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in 
which the filing party is a party, and if so, provide an explanation 
why timely resolution cannot be achieved in that forum; 
 
f.  State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request 
for stay or extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
 
g. Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal 
Challenge in possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing 
party, including, but not limited to, contracts and affidavits; and 
 
h. State whether the filing party utilized the Informal Challenge 
procedures described in these protocols to dispute the action or 
inaction raised by the Formal Challenge, and, if not, describe why 
not. 
 
2. Service.  Any person filing a Formal Challenge must serve a copy of the 
Formal Challenge on the NEET PJM Entity.  Service to the NEET PJM 
Entity must be simultaneous with filing at the Commission.  
Simultaneous service can be accomplished by electronic mail in 
accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 385.2010(f)(3), facsimile, express delivery, 
or messenger.  The party filing the Formal Challenge shall serve the 
individual listed as the contact person on the NEET PJM Entity’s 
Informational Filing required under Section VI of these protocols. 
 
D. Informal and Formal Challenges shall be limited to all issues that may be 
necessary to determine: (1) the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; (2) 
whether the Annual True-Up or projected net revenue requirement fails to 
include data properly recorded in accordance with these protocols; (3) the 
proper application of the formula rate and procedures in these protocols; (4) 
the accuracy of data and consistency with the formula rate of the calculations 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 10 
shown in the Annual True-Up and projected net revenue requirement ; (5) the 
prudence of actual costs and expenditures; (6) the effect of any change to 
the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1; or (7) any 
other information that may reasonably have substantive effect on the calculation 
of the charge pursuant to the formula. 
 
E. Each NEET PJM Entity will cause to be posted to PJM’s website and OASIS all 
Informal Challenges from Interested Parties and the NEET PJM Entity 
response(s) to such Informal Challenges ; except, however, if Informal Challenges 
or responses to Informal Challenges include material deemed by such NEET PJM 
Entity to be confidential information, such information will not be publicly posted 
but will be made available to requesting parties pursuant to a confidentiality 
agreement to be executed by the NEET PJM Entity and the requesting party. 
 
F. Any changes or adjustments to the Annual True-Up Adjustment or projected net 
revenue requirement resulting from the Information Exchange and Informal 
Challenge processes that are agreed to by a NEET PJM Entity will be reported 
in the Informational Filing required pursuant to Section VI of these 
protocols.  Any such changes or adjustments agreed to by a NEET PJM Entity 
on or before the last day of the Information Exchange Period will be reflected in 
the projected net revenue requirement for the upcoming Rate Year. Any changes 
or adjustments agreed to by a NEET PJM Entity after the last day of the 
Information Exchange Period will be reflected in the following year’s Annual 
True-Up, as discussed in Section V of these protocols. 
 
G. An Interested Party shall have until seventy-five (75) days following the Review 
Period (unless such date is extended with the written consent of the applicable 
NEET PJM Entity to continue efforts to resolve the Informal Challenge or 
unless the deadline for the NEET PJM Entity to submit its informational filing is 
extended) to make a Formal Challenge with FERC, which shall be served 
on the NEET PJM Entity on the date of such filing as specified in Section 
IV.C(2) above. If the last day of the seventy-five day period to make a Formal 
Challenge falls on a weekend or a holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for 
submitting all Formal Challenges shall be extended to the next business day. A 
Formal Challenge shall be filed in the same docket as the NEET PJM Entity’s 
Informational Filing discussed in Section VI of these protocols.  The NEET PJM 
Entity shall respond to the Formal Challenge by the deadline established by 
FERC. A party may not pursue a  Formal Challenge if that party did not submit an 
Informal Challenge on any issue during the applicable Review Period. 
 
H. In any proceeding initiated by FERC concerning the Annual  True-Up or 
projected net revenue requirement or in response to a Formal Challenge, the 
NEET PJM Entity shall bear the burden, consistent with section 205 of the FPA, 
of proving that it has correctly applied the terms of the formula rate consistent 
with these protocols, and that it followed the applicable requirements and 
procedures in these protocols. Nothing herein is intended to alter the burdens 
applied by FERC with respect to prudence challenges. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 11 
 
I. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in 
any way the right of a NEET PJM Entity  to file unilaterally, pursuant to  
section 205 of the FPA and the regulations thereunder, to change the formula 
rate or any of its inputs (including, but not limited to, rate of return and 
transmission incentive rate treatment), or to replace the formula rate with a stated 
rate, or the right of any other party to request such changes pursuant to section 
206 of the FPA and the regulations thereunder. 
 
J. No party shall seek to modify the formula rate under the Challenge Procedures 
set forth in these protocols and the Annual True-Up and projected net revenue 
requirement shall not be subject to challenge by anyone for the purpose of 
modifying the formula rate. Any modifications to the formula rate will 
require, as applicable, an FPA section 205 or section 206 filing. 
 
K. Any Interested Party seeking changes to the application of the formula rate due to 
a change in the Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1, shall first 
raise the matter with the applicable NEET PJM Entity in accordance with this 
Section IV before pursuing a Formal Challenge. 
 
Section V. Changes to Annual True-Up Adjustment or Projected Net Revenue 
Requirement 
 
 Except as provided in Section IV.F of these protocols,  any changes to the data 
inputs, including but not limited to revisions to a  NEET PJM Entity’s FERC Form No. 
1, or as the result of any FERC proceeding to consider the Annual True-Up or 
projected net revenue requirement, or as a result of the procedures set forth herein, shall 
be incorporated into the formula rate and the charges produced by the formula rate in 
the projected net revenue requirement  for the next Rate Year. This reconciliation 
mechanism shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments. Interest on any refund or 
surcharge shall be calculated in accordance with the procedures outlined in Section VII of 
these protocols. 
 
Section VI. Informational Filings 
 
A. By September 30 of each year, each NEET PJM Entity using a January – 
December rate year shall submit to FERC an informational filing (“Informational 
Filing”) of its projected net revenue requirement for the Rate Year, including its 
Annual  True-Up and True-Up Adjustment (unless the Review Period is extended 
by the NEET PJM Entity or FERC). Such filing shall be made by each NEET 
PJM Entity using a June – May rate year no later than May 15 of each year.  If the 
due date for the informational filing falls on a weekend or a holiday recognized by 
FERC, the deadline for submitting the Informational Filing shall be extended to 
the next business day.  This Informational Filing must include the information that 
is reasonably necessary to determine: (1) that input data under the formula rate are 
properly recorded in any underlying workpapers; (2) that the NEET PJM Entity 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 12 
has properly applied the formula rate and these procedures; (3) the accuracy of 
data and the consistency with the formula rate of the transmission revenue 
requirement and rates under review; (4) the extent of accounting changes that 
affect formula rate inputs; and (5) the reasonableness of projected costs.  The 
Informational Filing must also describe any corrections or adjustments made 
during that period, and must describe all aspects of the formula rate or its inputs 
that are the subject of an ongoing dispute under the Informal or Formal Challenge 
Procedures.  Additionally, the Informational Filing must include for the applicable 
Rate Year the following information related to affiliate cost allocation: (1) a 
detailed description of the methodologies used to allocate and directly assign 
costs between a NEET PJM Entity and its affiliates by service category or 
function, including any changes to such cost allocation and methodologies from 
the prior year, and the reasons and justification for those changes; and (2) the 
magnitude of such costs that have been allocated or directly assigned between a 
NEET PJM Entity and each affiliate by service category or function. Within five 
(5) days of such Informational Filing, PJM shall provide notice of the 
Informational Filing via an email exploder list and by posting the docket number 
assigned to each NEET PJM Entity’s Informational Filing on the PJM website 
and OASIS. 
 
B. Any challenges to the implementation of the NEET PJM Entity formula rate 
must be made through the Challenge Procedures described in Section IV of 
these protocols or in a separate complaint proceeding, and not in response to 
the Informational Filing. 
 
Section VII. Calculation of True-Up Adjustment 
 
The True-Up Adjustment will be determined in the following manner: 
 
1. Actual transmission revenues received the previous calendar year (“True-
Up Year”) shall be compared to the actual net revenue requirement 
(calculated in accordance with the NEET PJM Entity’s formula rate) for 
the True-Up Year as determined using the NEET PJM Entity’s completed 
FERC Form No. 1 report to determine any excess or shortfall.  The excess 
or shortfall due to the actual revenue received versus the actual net 
revenue requirement shall constitute the “True-Up Adjustment.”  The 
True-Up Adjustment and related calculations shall be posted to PJM’s 
website and OASIS no later than June 1 for NEET PJM Entities using a 
January – December rate year or May 15 for NEET PJM Entities using a 
June – May rate year (or if that day falls on a weekend or a holiday 
recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be due on the next business 
day) following the issuance of the FERC Form No. 1 for the previous 
year, as set forth in Section II of these protocols.   
  
2. Interest on any over recovery of the net revenue requirement shall be 
determined based on the Commission’s regulation at 18 C.F.R § 35.19a.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33A NextEra Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 6/1/2024 - Docket #: ER25-2941-001 - Page 13 
Interest on any under recovery of the net revenue requirement shall be 
determined using the interest rate equal to: (i) the NEET PJM Entity’s 
actual short-term debt costs capped at the interest rate determined based 
on the Commission’s regulation at 18 C.F.R § 35.19a; or (ii) if the NEET 
PJM Entity does not have short-term debt, then the interest rate 
determined based on the Commission’s regulation at 18 C.F.R § 35.19a.  
In either case, an average interest rate shall be used to calculate the interest 
payable for the twenty-four (24) months during which the over or under 
recovery in the revenue requirement exists.  The interest rate to be applied 
to the over or under recovery amounts will be determined using the 
average rate for the twenty-one (21) months preceding October of the 
current year.  The interest amount will be included in the projected costs 
made available by either May 15 or September 30, as described in Section 
II.C above.  
3. The net revenue requirement for transmission services for the following 
Rate Year shall be the sum of the projected net revenue requirement for 
the following year, plus or minus the True-Up Adjustment from the True-
Up Year, if any, including interest, as explained above, and as described in 
Attachment 3 of the NEET PJM Entity’s formula rate.  
 
4.  A NEET PJM Entity may accelerate the refund of any over recovery 
amounts by one year.  The interest calculation will be adjusted to reflect 
the period the over recovery exists.    
 
Section VIII. Competitive Bid Concessions 
 
 For transmission development projects assigned to a NEET PJM Entity as a result 
of the PJM competitive project sponsor process, such NEET PJM Entity may, in its sole 
discretion, agree with PJM to apply a Competitive Bid Concession that will result in a 
lower net revenue requirement on a project-specific basis than that which would 
otherwise be produced by the NEET PJM Entity’s formula rate.  Any Competitive Bid 
Concession will appear as a zero or negative input to the formula, and will be determined 
on a project-specific basis using a workpaper that will be provided to Interested Parties as 
supporting documentation for each Annual True-Up by such NEET PJM Entity. 
 
Section IX.  Regulatory Asset for Pre-Commercial and Formation Costs 
 NEET MidAtlantic, Inc. will recover through current rates costs necessary to 
administer, operate, and maintain its assets in its projected net revenue requirement and 
Annual True-Up.  Consistent with the Commission’s authorization, additional costs that 
would otherwise be recoverable through the Formula Rate will be deferred to the 
regulatory asset for pre-commercial and formation costs until the net book value of all 
transmission facilities owned by NEET MidAtlantic, Inc. and any NEET PJM Entity 
equals or exceeds $50 million.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-33B NextEra 
Formula Rate Template 
Effective Date: 10/3/2025 - Docket #: ER24-2255-003 - Page 1 
          page 1 of 5 
