[ATTACHMENT M - Part 1 of 3]

ATTACHMENT M 
PJM MARKET MONITORING PLAN 
 
References to section numbers in this Attachment M refer to sections of this Attachment M, 
unless otherwise specified. 
 
I. OBJECTIVES 
 
The objectives of this PJM Market Monitoring Plan are to maintain an independent Market 
Monitoring Unit that will objectively monitor, investigate, evaluate and report on the PJM 
Markets, including, but not limited to, structural, design or operational flaws in the PJM Markets 
or the exercise of market power or manipulation in the PJM Markets. The Market Monitoring 
Unit shall have responsibility for implementing the Plan. In the event of any conflict between a 
provision in the Plan and a provision of the PJM Market Rules, the provision of the Plan shall 
control. 
 
II. [Reserved for Future Use]  
 
III. MARKET MONITORING UNIT 
 
 A.  Establishment:  PJM shall establish or retain a Market Monitoring Unit to 
perform the functions set forth in this Plan. 
 
 B.  Composition:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall be comprised of personnel 
having the experience and qualifications necessary to implement this Plan. In carrying out its 
responsibilities, the Market Monitoring Unit may retain such consultants, attorneys and experts 
as it deems necessary.   
 
 C. Independence:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall be independent from, and not 
subject to, the direction or supervision of any person or entity, with the exception of the PJM 
Board as specified in section III.D above, and the Commission.  No person or entity shall have 
the right to preview, screen, alter, delete, or otherwise exercise editorial control over or delay 
Market Monitoring Unit actions or investigations or the findings, conclusions, and 
recommendations developed by the Market Monitoring Unit that fall within the scope of market 
monitoring responsibilities contained in this Plan.  Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to 
exempt the Market Monitoring Unit from any applicable provision of state or federal law. 
 
 D. Role of PJM Board:  
 
  1. The PJM Board shall have the authority and responsibility:  
 
a. To review the budget of the Market Monitoring Unit, consistent 
with the budget processes and requirements set forth in section III.E 
below.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 2 
b. To propose to terminate, retain by contract renewal or replace the 
Market Monitoring Unit, consistent with the requirements of section III.F 
below. 
 
  2. The PJM Board and the Market Monitor shall meet and confer from time 
to time on matters relevant to the discharge of the PJM Board’s and the Market Monitoring 
Unit’s duties under this Plan. 
 
  3. Other than the matters set forth in sections III.D.1 and D.2 above, the PJM 
Board shall have no responsibility for, or authority over, the Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
 E. Budget:   
 
  1. Preparation:  The Market Monitor shall prepare a budget each year of its 
expenses on an accrual basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that is 
sufficient to cover the anticipated actual costs to perform the services under this Plan, including, 
but not limited to, salary and benefits, rent and utilities, interest, depreciation and other operating 
expenses.   
 
  2. Review:  The Market Monitor shall, not later than September 15, submit a 
draft budget to the Finance Committee, OPSI Advisory Committee, and PJM Board for review 
and comment.  The draft budget shall include total labor compensation, non-employee labor 
expense, current full-time employee and contractor head count, depreciation expense, interest 
expense, technology expense, other expense and capital spending, including a level of supporting 
detail consistent with that provided by PJM in its annual budget review to the Finance 
Committee.  The draft budget shall also be made available for inspection by the PJM members.  
The Finance Committee, OPSI Advisory Committee, and PJM Board shall have until October 15 
to request changes in the budget.  The Market Monitor shall consider those requests and, if they 
are not accepted by the Market Monitor, it shall provide, in writing, to the foregoing and to PJM 
members, an explanation of the reasons they are not acceptable.  If, after discussing requested 
changes with such entities, there is no remaining dispute over such requested changes, the 
mutually agreeable budget shall go into effect on January 1 of the subsequent year.   
 
  3. Commission Action:  If despite the foregoing process, there remains a 
dispute regarding the budget, PJM shall, not later than November 1, file the Market Monitor's 
proposed budget with the Commission for resolution of the dispute.   PJM shall accompany such 
filing with an explanation of the nature of the dispute and any position of the PJM Board on such 
dispute.  Any interested person may also file comments on such dispute.  The fact that PJM is 
submitting the dispute for Commission review shall not be deemed to provide the views of the 
PJM Board any special weight, nor subject them to any special burden of proof.  If the 
Commission has not taken action by December 31, the Market Monitor's proposed budget, filed 
by PJM, shall take effect, subject to any subsequent Commission order.   
 
  4. Intra-year Amendments to the Budget:  If the Market Monitor requires 
an intra-year amendment to the budget to perform its functions under the Plan, it shall provide 
the proposed amendment, the reasons for the proposed amendment and reasonable supporting 
detail to the Finance Committee, OPSI Advisory Committee and the PJM Board for review and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 3 
comment, and if any dispute regarding such proposed amendment remains 30 days thereafter, 
PJM shall file the proposed budget amendment with the Commission for resolution of the 
dispute.  The proposed budget amendment and supporting explanation shall also be made 
available for inspection by the PJM members.  
 
  5. Rates:  The Market Monitor’s approved budget shall be collected pursuant 
to Tariff, Schedule 9-MMU. 
 
 F. Term and Termination:  
 
  1. Term:  Upon the effective date of this revised Attachment M, there shall 
be a contract between PJM and the Market Monitoring Unit that has an initial term of six (6) 
years.  Upon the expiration of that initial six (6) year term, the contract may be renewed for 
subsequent term(s) of three (3) years if both parties agree.  If the PJM Board does not agree to 
renew the contract at the end of its term, it may propose to terminate the contract pursuant to the 
standards and processes set forth below. 
 
  2. Standards for Proposed Termination:   
 
a. Termination During Contract Term.  During the term of any 
contract with the Market Monitoring Unit, the PJM Board may propose to 
terminate the contract as follows: 
 
(1) During the first three (3) years following the effective date 
of this revised Attachment M, the PJM Board may propose to 
terminate the contract with the Market Monitoring Unit upon a 
determination of willful misconduct or gross negligence by the 
Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
(2) Following the expiration of this initial three (3) year period, 
the PJM Board may, during the term of any contract with the 
Market Monitoring Unit (or any successor Market Monitoring 
Unit), propose to terminate the contract with the Market 
Monitoring Unit upon a determination that the Market Monitoring 
Unit has not adequately performed its functions set forth in this 
Plan. 
 
b. Termination at End of Contract Term.  At the end of the term of 
any contract with the Market Monitoring Unit, the PJM Board may 
propose to terminate the contract with the Market Monitoring Unit (or any 
successor Market Monitoring Unit) (1) upon a determination that the 
Market Monitoring Unit has not adequately performed the functions set 
forth in this Plan, or (2) pursuant to an open, nondiscriminatory and 
transparent request for proposals. 
 
 3. Process for Proposed Termination and Replacement:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 4 
a. Notice.  If the PJM Board proposes to terminate the contract with 
the Market Monitoring Unit pursuant to the standards set forth in section 
III.F.2 above, it shall provide one hundred twenty (120) days prior notice 
to the Market Monitoring Unit, the OPSI Advisory Committee, MMU 
Advisory Committee and the PJM members.   
 
b. Contents of Notice.  The notice shall include the following 
information: 
 
(1) If the PJM Board proposes to terminate the contract with 
the Market Monitoring Unit based on willful misconduct or gross 
negligence, it shall set forth in detail the conduct that supports such 
determination and shall propose an open and transparent process 
(such as a request for proposals) for selecting a new Market 
Monitoring Unit.   
 
(2) If the PJM Board proposes to terminate the contract with 
the Market Monitoring Unit because it has not adequately 
performed its functions under this Plan, it shall set forth in detail 
the performance deficiencies that support that determination and 
shall propose an open and transparent process (such as a request 
for proposals) for selecting a new Market Monitoring Unit.   
 
(3) If the PJM Board proposes to conduct a request for 
proposals to determine whether to replace the Market Monitoring 
Unit at the end of a contract term, it shall propose an open, 
nondiscriminatory and transparent request for proposals and shall 
allow the existing Market Monitoring Unit to submit a bid or 
proposal in that process.  Any such notice shall set forth in detail 
the criteria applicable to such request for proposals.  Such criteria 
shall be subject to comment as provided in section III.F.3.c below 
and subject to approval by the Commission.   
 
c. Comments on the Notice.  Within forty-five (45) days of any such 
notice, the Market Monitoring Unit, the OPSI Advisory Committee, MMU 
Advisory Committee, any PJM member or any stakeholder may provide 
advice or comment to the PJM Board regarding the proposed termination 
and/or the proposed process for selecting a new Market Monitoring Unit.  
The PJM Board shall take such advice or comment into account in 
reaching a final determination as to whether to propose to terminate the 
contract with the Market Monitoring Unit and, if so, the process for 
selecting a new Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
d. FERC Filing.  Upon the expiration of the one hundred twenty 
(120) day prior notice period, the PJM Board may, after considering the 
advice and comment provided pursuant to section III.F.3.c above, propose 
in a filing to FERC that the contract with the Market Monitoring Unit be 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 5 
terminated.  Any such proposal shall include a detailed explanation of the 
reasons therefor, including an explanation of why the standards set forth in 
section III.F.2 above have been satisfied, and an open, nondiscriminatory 
and transparent process for selecting a new Market Monitoring Unit.  The 
Market Monitoring Unit, OPSI Advisory Committee and any interested 
stakeholder may submit to FERC such comments, protests or other 
documents and advice as appropriate on such filing. 
 
e. Termination.  The contract with the Market Monitoring Unit shall 
not be terminated until (1) FERC has reviewed a termination proposal by 
the PJM Board and any comments or protests submitted by interested 
parties thereon (including the OPSI Advisory Committee), (2) FERC has 
made a finding that the PJM Board has demonstrated that termination is 
justified pursuant to the standards set forth in section III.F.2 above, (3) 
FERC has approved a process for selecting a new Market Monitoring 
Unit, and (4) a new Market Monitoring Unit has been selected pursuant to 
such FERC-approved process.   
 
 G. OPSI Advisory Committee:  There shall be an OPSI Advisory Committee 
comprised of five (5) representatives appointed by the Organization of PJM States, Inc.  The 
OPSI Advisory Committee shall meet with the Market Monitoring Unit on a regular basis and as 
otherwise necessary to receive and discuss information relevant to this Plan.  In addition to the 
specific responsibilities regarding budget and termination set forth in sections III.E and III.F 
above, the OPSI Advisory Committee may provide advice to the Commission, Market Monitor, 
the PJM Board, stakeholder committees, and stakeholder working groups regarding any matter 
concerning the Market Monitor, Market Monitoring Unit or Market Monitoring Plan.  Any 
formal advice shall be in writing and, subject to confidentiality provisions, shall be made 
publicly available. 
 
 H. Market Monitoring Unit Advisory Committee:  There shall be an MMU 
Advisory Committee, chaired by the Market Monitor, that is open to all stakeholders and 
representatives of Authorized Government Agencies.  The MMU Advisory Committee shall act 
as a liaison between stakeholders and the MMU and shall provide advice from time to time on 
matters relevant to the MMU's responsibilities under this Plan.  The MMU Advisory Committee 
shall have no authority to direct, supervise, review, or otherwise interfere with the functions of 
the MMU under this Plan, nor any authority to terminate or propose to terminate the Market 
Monitor. 
 
 I. PJM Liaison:  PJM may appoint an employee to act as liaison with the Market 
Monitoring Unit.  The function of the liaison will be to facilitate communications between PJM 
employees and the Market Monitoring Unit, as defined in section V.E below.   
 
IV. MARKET MONITORING UNIT FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
 A. General:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall objectively monitor the 
competitiveness of PJM Markets, investigate violations of FERC or PJM Market Rules, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 6 
recommend changes to PJM Market Rules, prepare reports for the Authorized Government 
Agencies and take such other actions as are specified in this Plan. 
 
 B. Monitored Activities:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall be responsible for 
monitoring the following: 
 
  1. Compliance with the PJM Market Rules. 
 
  2. Actual or potential design flaws in the PJM Market Rules.  
 
  3. Structural problems in the PJM Markets that may inhibit a robust and 
competitive market. 
 
  4. The potential for a Market Participant to exercise market power or violate 
any of the PJM or FERC Market Rules or the actual exercise of market power or violation of the 
PJM or FERC Market Rules. 
 
  5. PJM’s implementation of the PJM Market Rules or operation of the PJM 
Markets, as further set forth in section IV.C below. 
  
  6. Such matters as are necessary to prepare the reports set forth in Section 
VI. 
 
 C. Monitoring of PJM:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall monitor PJM's 
implementation of the PJM Market Rules and operation of the PJM Markets.  If the Market 
Monitoring Unit disagrees with the implementation of the PJM Market Rules or the operation of 
the PJM Markets, the Market Monitoring Unit may so advise PJM. Excepting matters governed 
by section IV.I below, if the disagreement cannot be resolved informally, the Market Monitoring 
Unit may inform the Commission, Authorized Government Agencies, or the PJM members.  The 
Market Monitoring Unit shall have no authority to direct PJM to modify its operation of the PJM 
Markets or implementation of the PJM Market Rules. 
 
 C-1. Monitoring of ITCs: The Market Monitoring Unit shall monitor the services 
provided by the independent transmission companies (ITCs), and the ITC-PJM relationship, to 
detect any problems that may inhibit a robust and competitive market.  Transactions utilizing the 
ITC Transmission Facilities shall be subject to the authority of the Market Monitoring Unit on 
the same basis as transactions involving any other Market Participant using other portions of the 
Transmission System. This provision is also found in Tariff, Attachment U, section 12.1. 
 
 D. Monitoring of PJM Market Rules, PJM Tariff and Market Design:  PJM is 
responsible for proposing for approval by the Commission, consistent with tariff procedures and 
applicable law, changes to the PJM Market Rules, PJM Tariff and design of the PJM Markets.  
The Market Monitoring Unit shall evaluate and monitor existing and proposed PJM Market 
Rules, PJM Tariff provisions, and the design of the PJM Markets.  However, if the Market 
Monitoring Unit detects a design flaw or other problem with the PJM Markets, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall not effectuate its proposed market design since that is the responsibility of 
the Office of the Interconnection.  The Market Monitoring Unit may initiate and propose, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 7 
through the appropriate stakeholder processes, changes to the design of such markets, as well as 
changes to the PJM Market Rules and PJM Tariff.  In support of this function, the Market 
Monitoring Unit may engage in discussions with stakeholders, State Commissions, PJM 
Management, or the PJM Board; participate in PJM stakeholder meetings or working groups 
regarding market design matters; publish proposals, reports or studies on such market design 
issues; and make filings with the Commission on market design issues.   The Market Monitoring 
Unit may also recommend changes to the PJM Market Rules and PJM Tariff provisions to the 
staff of the Commission’s Office of Energy Market Regulation, State Commissions, and the PJM 
Board.  
 
D-1. Market Monitoring Unit Compliance Review:  The Market Monitoring Unit 
shall monitor compliance with PJM Market Rules and shall take action on compliance issues. 
The Market Monitoring Unit has the exclusive authority to perform the functions set forth in 
Tariff, Attachment M-Appendix and in this Attachment M.  If the Market Monitoring Unit 
detects a Market Violation involving potential misconduct, it shall, if the applicable criteria are 
met, refer the matter in accordance with section IV.I below. If the Market Monitoring Unit 
detects a compliance issue and determines that there is an issue about the proper and lawful 
application of a rule, and the Market Monitoring Unit makes a preliminary determination that no 
misconduct is evident and the issue involves a difference about the appropriate calculation of the 
level of an input, the Market Monitoring Unit may file a petition or initiate other regulatory 
proceedings addressing the issue. The Market Monitoring Unit may, where it deems appropriate, 
submit a confidential Referral and initiate a public regulatory proceeding concerning the same 
underlying matter. 
 
 E.  Mitigation: The Market Monitoring Unit may, consistent with the PJM Market 
Rules, recommend to PJM that it take specific mitigation action that PJM is authorized to take 
under the PJM Market Rules to address market behavior or conditions. The Market Monitoring 
Unit shall not, however, have authority to require modification of PJM operational decisions, 
including dispatch instructions. If PJM does not accept the Market Monitoring Unit’s 
recommendations regarding mitigation actions, the Market Monitoring Unit may report its 
mitigation recommendation to the Authorized Government Agencies, Commission staff, State 
Commissions or the PJM members, as the Market Monitoring Unit deems appropriate.  Nothing 
in this Plan shall be deemed to supersede any authority the Market Monitoring Unit may have 
under the PJM Market Rules, nor shall anything in this Plan preclude any person or entity from 
seeking to modify such authority in a filing with the Commission.   
 
E-1. Market Monitoring Unit Market Power Review:  Determinations about market 
power are the responsibility of the Market Monitoring Unit under Tariff, Attachment M-
Appendix and under this Attachment M. The Market Monitoring Unit shall review all proposed 
sell offers for a determination of whether they raise market power concerns. The Market 
Monitoring Unit shall determine whether the level of offer or cost inputs raises market power 
concerns. Tariff,  Attachment M–Appendix sets forth the Market Monitoring Unit’s role in 
evaluating these offer or cost inputs.  The Market Monitoring Unit and market participants shall, 
in accordance with the applicable procedures and as set forth elsewhere in the Tariff, attempt to 
come to agreement about the level or value of offers or cost inputs.  The Market Monitoring Unit 
shall make a determination about whether offer or cost inputs or a decision not to offer a 
committed resource is physical or economic withholding or otherwise involves a potential 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 8 
exercise of market power. In the event that a market participant determines to use an offer or cost 
input at a level or value that the Market Monitoring Unit has found to involve a potential 
exercise of market power, the Market Monitoring Unit may file a petition or initiate other 
regulatory proceedings addressing the issue. If the potential exercise of market power is related 
to a Sell Offer submitted in an RPM Auction, the Market Monitoring Unit may file a complaint 
with the Commission addressing the issue. If, at the time of filing, market prices that have been 
settled and posted could be impacted by the subject of the complaint, the Market Monitoring 
Unit shall refrain from requesting relief from the Commission that would upset such market 
prices and shall limit the requested relief to appropriate restitution and/or penalties from the 
implicated market participant or participants. 
 
 F. Studies or Reports for State Commissions:  Upon request in writing by the 
OPSI Advisory Committee, the Market Monitoring Unit may, in its discretion, provide such 
studies or reports on wholesale market issues, including wholesale market transactions occurring 
under a state-administered auction process, as may affect one or more states within the PJM area.  
Any such request for such a study or report, as well as any resulting study or report, shall be 
made simultaneously available to the public, with simultaneous notice to PJM members, subject 
to the protection of confidential information.   
 
 G. Participation in Stakeholder Processes:  The Market Monitoring Unit may, as it 
deems appropriate or necessary to perform its functions under this Plan, participate (consistent 
with the rules applicable to all PJM stakeholders) in stakeholder working groups, committees or 
other PJM stakeholder processes. 
 
 H. Reports of Wrongdoing to State Commissions:  If during the ordinary course of 
its activities the Market Monitoring Unit discovers evidence of wrongdoing (other than minor 
misconduct) that the Market Monitor reasonably believes to be within a State Commission's 
jurisdiction, the Market Monitoring Unit shall report such information to the State 
Commission(s).  
 
 I. Referrals to the Commission 
 
  1. Required Notice and Referral to Commission of Suspected Market 
Violations:  Immediately upon determining that it has identified a significant market problem or 
a potential Market Violation by a Market Participant or PJM that may require (a) further inquiry 
by the Market Monitoring Unit, (b) Referral for investigation by the Commission and/or (c) 
action by the Commission, the Market Monitoring Unit shall notify the Commission’s Office of 
Enforcement (or any successor), either orally or in writing.  Nothing in this section IV.I.1 shall 
limit the ability of the Market Monitoring Unit to engage in discussions with any such Market 
Participant as provided in section IV.J.1 below. 
 
In addition to the notification requirement above, where the Market Monitoring Unit has reason 
to believe, based on sufficient credible information, that the behavior of a Market Participant or 
PJM may require investigation, including but not limited to suspected Market Violations, the 
Market Monitoring Unit will refer the matter to the Commission’s Office of Enforcement (or any 
successor) in the manner described below.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 9 
Such a Referral shall be in writing, non-public, addressed to the Commission’s Director of the 
Office of Enforcement, with a copy directed to the Commission’s Director of the Office of 
Energy Market Regulation and the General Counsel,  and should include, but need not be limited 
to, the following sufficient credible information to warrant further investigation by the 
Commission: 
 
  a. The name(s) of and, if possible, the contact information for, the Market 
Participants that allegedly took the action(s) that constitute that alleged Market Violation(s); 
 
  b. The date(s) or time period during which the alleged Market Violation(s) 
occurred and whether the alleged wrongful conduct is ongoing; 
 
  c. The specific rule, regulation, and/or tariff provision(s) that were allegedly 
violated or the nature of any inappropriate dispatch that may have occurred; 
 
  d. The specific act(s) or conduct that allegedly constituted the Market 
Violation; 
 
  e. The consequences to the market resulting from the act(s) or conduct, 
including, if known, an estimate of economic impact on the market;  
 
  f. If the Market Monitoring Unit believes that the act(s) or conduct 
constituted a violation of the anti-manipulation rule of 18 C.F.R. § 1c.2, a description of the 
alleged manipulative effect on market prices, market conditions, or market rules; and 
 
  g. Any other information that the Market Monitoring Unit believes is 
relevant and may be helpful to the Commission. 
 
 The Referral may be transmitted to the Commission electronically, by fax, by mail or by 
courier.  The Market Monitoring Unit may also provide the Commission with oral notice of the 
alleged Market Violation in advance of the submission of a written, non-public Referral.  
Following the submission of such a Referral, the Market Monitoring Unit will continue to inform 
the Commission staff of any information relating to the Referral that it discovers within the 
scope of its regular monitoring function, but it shall desist from, and not independently undertake 
any investigative steps regarding, the alleged Market Violation or Referral except at the express 
direction of the Commission or Commission staff.  The Market Monitoring Unit must also 
respond to requests of the Commission for additional information in connection with the alleged 
Market Violation that it has referred.  The Market Monitoring Unit is not precluded from 
continuing to monitor for any repeated instances of the activity in question by the same or other 
Market Participants, which activity would constitute new Market Violations. 
 
 The foregoing notwithstanding, a clear, objectively identifiable violation of the following 
PJM Market Rules, which provide for an explicit remedy that has been accepted by the 
Commission and can be administered by PJM, shall not be subject to the provisions of this 
section IV.I.1:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 10 
a. Default in obligations to the Office of the Interconnection by a Market Participant 
in violation of Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.7.10(a)(v) and the parallel provisions 
of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.7.10(a)(v). 
 
b. Default in obligations to the Office of the Interconnection by a Market Participant 
in violation of Operating Agreement, Schedile 1, section 1.7.19B(e) and the parallel provisions 
of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.7.19B(e). 
 
c. Failure of a Capacity Market Seller or Locational UCAP Seller to obtain 
replacement Unforced Capacity to the extent a Generation Capacity Resource that it committed 
for a Delivery Year is unavailable due to a planned or maintenance outage that occurs during the 
Peak Season without approval of the Office of the Interconnection, in violation of Tariff, 
Attachment DD, ection 9(b). 
 
d. Failure of an Electric Distributor to maintain the required underfrequency relays 
in violation of Operating Agreement, Schedule 7, section 2. 
 
e. Failure to submit data to the Office of the Interconnection in conformance with 
RAA, Schedule 11. 
 
f.     Failure of Black Start Units to fulfill their commitment to provide Black Start 
Service under Tariff, Schedule 6A. 
 
2. Required Referral to Commission of Perceived Market Design Flaws and 
Recommended Tariff Changes:   
 
The Market Monitoring Unit is to make a Referral to the Commission in all instances where the 
Market Monitoring Unit has reason to believe market design flaws exist that it believes could 
effectively be remedied by rule or PJM Tariff changes. The Market Monitoring Unit must limit 
distribution of its identifications and recommendations to PJM and to the Commission in the 
event it believes broader dissemination could lead to exploitation, with an explanation of why 
further dissemination should be avoided at that time. 
 
All Referrals to the Commission relating to perceived market design flaws and recommended 
PJM Tariff changes related thereto are to be in writing, whether transmitted electronically, by 
fax, mail, or courier.  The Market Monitoring Unit may alert the Commission orally in advance 
of the written Referral. 
 
The Referral should be addressed to the Commission’s Director of the Office of Energy Market 
Regulation, with copies directed to both the Director of the Office of Enforcement and the 
General Counsel. 
 
The Referral must include, but need not be limited to, the following information: 
 
 a. A detailed narrative describing the perceived market design flaw[s]; 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 11 
 b. The consequences of the perceived market design flaws, including, if known, an 
estimate of economic impact on the market; 
 
 c. The rule or PJM Tariff revisions that the Market Monitoring Unit believes could 
remedy the perceived market design flaw; and 
 
 d. Any other information the Market Monitoring Unit believes is relevant and may 
be helpful to the Commission. 
 
Following a Referral to the Commission, the Market Monitoring Unit must continue to notify 
and inform the Commission of any additional information regarding the perceived market design 
flaw, its effects on the market, any additional or modified observations concerning the rule or 
PJM Tariff changes that could remedy the perceived design flaw.  The Market Monitoring Unit 
must also notify and inform the Commission of any recommendations made by the Market 
Monitoring Unit to PJM, stakeholders, Market Participants or State Commissions regarding the 
perceived design flaw, and any actions taken by PJM regarding the perceived design flaw. 
 
 J. Additional Market Monitoring Unit Authority:  In addition to notifications and 
Referrals under sections IV.I.1 and IV.I.2 above, respectively, the Market Monitoring Unit shall 
have the additional authority described in this section, as follows:   
 
  1. Engage in discussions regarding issues relating to the PJM Market Rules 
or FERC Market Rules, in order to understand such issues and to attempt to resolve informally 
such issues or other issues. 
 
  2. Excepting matters governed by section IV.I above, file reports and make 
appropriate regulatory filings with Authorized Government Agencies to address design flaws, 
structural problems, compliance, market power, or other issues, and seek such appropriate action 
or make such recommendations as the Market Monitoring Unit shall deem appropriate. The 
Market Monitoring Unit shall make such filings or reports publicly available and provide 
simultaneous notice of the existence of reports to the PJM members and PJM, subject to 
protection of confidential information. 
 
  3. Consult with Authorized Government Agencies concerning the need for 
specific investigations or monitoring activities. 
 
  4. Consider and evaluate a broad range of additional enforcement 
mechanisms that may be necessary to assure compliance with the PJM Market Rules.  As part of 
this evaluation process, the Market Monitoring Unit shall consult with Authorized Government 
Agencies and other interested parties. 
 
  5. Report directly to the Commission staff on any matter. 
 
 K. Confidentiality:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 12 
  1. All discussions between the Market Monitoring Unit and Market 
Participants concerning the informal resolution of compliance issues initially shall remain 
confidential, subject to the provisions in subsection IV.K.3 below. 
 
  2. Except as provided in subsection IV.K.3 below, in exercising its authority 
to make Referrals, the Market Monitoring Unit shall observe the confidentiality provisions of the 
PJM Operating Agreement and Tariff, Attachment M - Appendix. 
 
  3. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan or the PJM 
Operating Agreement and Tariff, Attachment M - Appendix, the Market Monitoring Unit:  (a) 
may disclose any information to the Commission in connection with the reporting required under 
sections IV.I.1 and IV.I.2, above, of this Plan, provided that any written submission to the 
Commission that includes information that is confidential under the PJM Operating Agreement 
or Tariff, Attachment M - Appendix shall be accompanied by a request that the information be 
maintained as confidential, and (b) may make reports or other regulatory filings pursuant to this 
section IV.J or section V, below, of this Plan if accompanied by a request that information that is 
confidential under the PJM Operating Agreement or Tariffm, Attachment M - Appendix be 
maintained as confidential. 
 
V. INFORMATION AND DATA  
 
 A. Primary Information Sources:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall rely primarily 
upon data and information that are customarily gathered in the normal course of business of PJM 
and such publicly available data and information that may be helpful to accomplish the 
objectives of the Plan, including, but not limited to, (1) information gathered or generated by 
PJM in connection with its scheduling and dispatch functions, its operation of the transmission 
grid in the PJM Region or its determination of Locational Marginal Prices, (2) information 
required to be provided to PJM in accordance with the PJM Market Rules and (3) any other 
information that is generated by, provided to, or in the possession of PJM.  The foregoing 
information shall be provided to the Market Monitoring Unit as soon as practicable, including, 
but not limited to, real-time access to scheduling, dispatch and other operational data. 
 
 B. Other Information Requests:  If other information is required from a Market 
Participant, the Market Monitoring Unit shall comply with the following procedures: 
 
  1. Request for Additional Data:  If the Market Monitoring Unit determines 
that additional information is required to accomplish the objectives of the Plan, the Market 
Monitoring Unit may make reasonable requests of the entities possessing such information to 
provide the information.  Any such request for additional information will be accompanied by an 
explanation of the need for the information and the Market Monitoring Unit’s inability to acquire 
the information from alternate sources. 
 
  2. Failure to Comply with Request:  The information request recipient 
shall provide the Market Monitoring Unit with all information that is reasonably requested.  If an 
information request recipient does not provide requested information within a reasonable time, 
the Market Monitoring Unit may initiate such regulatory or judicial proceedings to compel the 
production of such information as may be available and deemed appropriate by the Market 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 13 
Monitoring Unit, including petitioning the Commission for an order that the information is 
necessary and directing its production.  An information request recipient shall have the right to 
respond to any such petitions and participate in the proceedings thereon. 
 
  3. Information Concerning Possible Undue Preference:  Notwithstanding 
subsection V.B.1 above, if the Market Monitoring Unit requests information relating to possible 
undue preference between Transmission Owners and their affiliates, Transmission Owners and 
their affiliates must provide requested information to the Market Monitoring Unit within a 
reasonable time, as specified by the Market Monitoring Unit; provided, however, that an 
information request recipient may petition the Commission for an order limiting all or part of the 
information request, in which event the Commission’s order on the petition shall determine the 
extent of the information request recipient’s obligation to comply with the disputed portion of the 
information request. 
 
  4. Confidentiality:  Except as provided in section IV.K.3, above, of this 
Plan, the Market Monitoring Unit shall observe the confidentiality provisions of the PJM 
Operating Agreement and Tariff, Attachment M - Appendix with respect to information provided 
under this section if an entity providing the information designates it as confidential. 
 
 C. Complaints:  Any Market Participant or other interested entity may at any time 
submit information to the Market Monitoring Unit concerning any matter relevant to the Market 
Monitoring Unit’s responsibilities under the Plan, or may request the Market Monitoring Unit to 
make inquiry or take any action contemplated by the Plan.  Such submissions or requests may be 
made on a confidential basis.  The Market Monitoring Unit may request further information from 
such Market Participant or other entity and make such inquiry as the Market Monitoring Unit 
considers appropriate.  The Market Monitoring Unit shall not be required to act with respect to 
any specific complaint unless the Market Monitoring Unit determines action to be warranted. 
 
 D. Collection and Availability of Information:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
regularly collect and maintain under its sole control the information that it deems necessary for 
implementing the Plan. A Market Participant shall have sole responsibility to make available to 
the Market Monitoring Unit any information that the Market Monitoring Unit deems reasonably 
necessary to document, verify or investigate a claim or request by such Market Participant. All 
load reduction data are subject to audit by the Market Monitoring Unit. The Market Monitoring 
Unit shall make publicly available a detailed description of the categories of data collected by the 
Market Monitoring Unit.  To the extent it deems appropriate and upon specific request, the 
Market Monitoring Unit may release other data to the public, consistent with the obligations of 
the Market Monitoring Unit and PJM to protect confidential, proprietary, or commercially 
sensitive information as provided in Tariff, Attachment M - Appendix and the PJM Operating 
Agreement. 
 
 E. Access to Personnel and Facilities:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall have 
access to PJM personnel and facilities as necessary to perform the functions set forth in this Plan.  
If the Market Monitoring Unit seeks data or other information from PJM personnel, it may 
contact the appropriate personnel that may be in possession of such data or information.  If the 
Market Monitoring Unit seeks a formal opinion or position on a matter from PJM, it shall contact 
the PJM Liaison or appropriate senior management official to provide such opinion or position. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 14 
 
 F. Market Monitoring Indices:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall develop, and 
shall refine on the basis of experience, indices or other standards to evaluate the information that 
it collects and maintains.  Prior to using any such index or standard, the Market Monitoring Unit 
shall provide PJM members, Authorized Government Agencies, and other interested parties an 
opportunity to comment on the appropriateness of such index or standard.  Following such 
opportunity for comments, the decision to use any index or standard shall be solely that of the 
Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
 G. Evaluation of Information:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall evaluate, and 
shall refine on the basis of experience, the information it collects and maintains, or that it 
receives from other sources, regarding the operation of the PJM Markets or other matters 
relevant to the Plan.  As so evaluated, such information shall provide the basis for reports or 
other actions of the Market Monitoring Unit under this Plan. 
 
VI. REPORTS 
 
 A. Reports:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall prepare and submit 
contemporaneously to the Commission, the State Commissions, the PJM Board, PJM 
Management and to the PJM Members Committee, annual state-of-the-market reports on the 
state of competition within, and the efficiency of, the PJM Markets, and quarterly reports that 
update selected portions of the annual report and which may focus on certain topics of particular 
interest to the Market Monitoring Unit. The quarterly reports shall not be as extensive as the 
annual reports. In its annual, quarterly and other reports, the Market Monitoring Unit may make 
recommendations regarding any matter within its purview.  The annual reports shall, and the 
quarterly reports may, address, among other things, the extent to which prices in the PJM 
Markets reflect competitive outcomes, the structural competitiveness of the PJM Markets, the 
effectiveness of bid mitigation rules, and the effectiveness of the PJM Markets in signaling 
infrastructure investment.  These annual reports shall, and the quarterly reports may include 
recommendations as to whether changes to the Market Monitoring Unit or the Plan are required.  
In addition, the Market Monitoring Unit shall provide to the PJM Board, in a timely manner, 
copies of any reports submitted to Authorized Government Agencies pursuant to Section VI.B.  
The Market Monitoring Unit may from time-to-time prepare and submit additional reports to the 
Commission, the PJM Board and PJM Members Committee as the Market Monitoring Unit may 
deem appropriate in the discharge of its responsibilities under the Plan. 
 
 B. Reports to Authorized Government Agencies:  The Market Monitoring Unit 
shall contemporaneously submit to the Authorized Government Agencies the reports provided to 
the PJM Board pursuant to section VI.A above.  Subject to applicable law and regulation and any 
other applicable provisions of the PJM Operating Agreement or PJM Tariff, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall, to the extent practicable, respond to reasonable requests by Authorized 
Government Agencies other than the Commission for reports, subject to protection of 
confidential, proprietary and commercially sensitive information, the protection of the 
confidentiality of ongoing inquiries and monitoring activities, and the availability of resources. 
 
 C. Public Reports:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall prepare a detailed public 
annual report about the Market Monitoring Unit’s activities, subject to protection of confidential, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 15 
proprietary, and commercially sensitive information and the protection of the confidentiality of 
ongoing investigations and monitoring activities.  The Market Monitoring Unit may, instead of 
filing a separate report, include the referenced material in a report filed pursuant to section VI.A 
above. 
 
 D. State Commission Tailored Requests for Information:  Subject to the 
confidentiality restrictions of Tariff, Attachment M – Appendix, section I.D. and Operating 
Agreement, section 18.17.4, the Market Monitoring Unit may provide, at its discretion, 
information regarding general market trends and the performance of the PJM Markets in 
response to a State Commission’s tailored request for information unless the requested 
information is designed to aid state enforcement actions or impinges upon the confidentiality 
rules of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with regard to Referrals.   
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall provide to any Market Participant whose information has been 
requested, or who may be affected by the release of the requested information, written notice, 
which shall include electronic communication, of a State Commission’s tailored request for 
information as soon as possible, but not later than two (2) Business Days after the receipt of the 
request.  If the request for tailored information seeks to obtain Confidential Information, the 
requirements and limitations of Tariff, Attachment M-Appendix, section I.D. shall apply.  If the 
request for tailored information seeks to obtain information that is not Confidential Information, 
if the Market Participant whose information has been requested or who may be affected by the 
release of the requested information objects to the request or any portion thereof, it shall be given 
the opportunity to contest the request and to provide a contextual explanation to supplement the 
information produced by the Market Monitoring Unit so long as the providing of the contextual 
explanation does not unduly delay the release of the information to the State Commission.  To 
register its objection, the Market Participant must request, in writing, within four (4) Business 
Days following the Market Monitoring Unit’s receipt of the request, a conference with the State 
Commission to resolve differences concerning the scope or timing of the tailored request for 
information; provided, however, nothing herein shall require the State Commission to participate 
in any conference. Any party to the conference may seek assistance from FERC staff in 
resolution of the dispute or terminate the conference process at any time. Should such conference 
be refused or terminated by any participant or should such conference not resolve the dispute, 
then the Market Participant whose information has been requested or who may be affected by the 
release of the requested information, may file a complaint with the FERC pursuant to Rule 206 
objecting to the request for tailored information within ten (10) Business Days following receipt 
of written notice from any conference participant terminating such conference. Any complaints 
filed at the FERC objecting to a particular request for tailored information shall be designated by 
the party as a “fast track” complaint and each party shall bear its own costs in connection with 
such FERC proceeding.  
 
If no complaint challenging the request for tailored information is filed within the ten (10) 
Business Day period defined above, the Market Monitoring Unit shall utilize its best efforts to 
respond to the request for tailored information promptly. If a complaint is filed, and the 
Commission does not act on that complaint within ninety (90) days, the complaint shall be 
deemed denied and the Market Monitoring Unit shall use its best efforts to respond to the request 
for tailored information promptly. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Market Monitoring Unit 
determines, in its discretion, that responding to the State Commission’s request for tailored 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 16 
information is unreasonably burdensome and/or will interfere with the Market Monitoring Unit’s 
ability to carry out its core functions based on time and resource availability of its staff, the 
Market Monitoring Unit may decline such a request.   
 
 E. MMU Staff Availability:  The Market Monitoring Unit shall make one or more 
staff members available for regular conference calls, which may be attended telephonically or in 
person, by FERC Commission staff, State Commission staff, representatives of PJM, and Market 
Participants.  
 
VII. AUDIT 
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall annually (a) document, and advise PJM of, Market 
Monitoring Unit’s actual expenses for the prior year by no later than March 15, and provide a 
copy of such documentation to the Finance Committee, and (b) provide audited financial 
statements of the Market Monitoring Unit of revenues and expenses related solely to the services 
provided to PJM, audited by a nationally recognized independent third party auditor selected by 
the Market Monitor, by no later than May 15.  The audit report shall include, but not be limited 
to, a review of whether MMU expenditures were for purposes consistent with the functions set 
forth in this Plan and shall include documentation at a level of supporting detail consistent with 
that required in section III.E above. The audit report shall be provided to the PJM Board, Finance 
Committee, Market Monitoring Unit, OPSI, OPSI Advisory Committee, PJM and PJM members 
subject to the protection of confidential information.  The requirement that the Market 
Monitoring  Unit annually document and advise PJM of its expenses for the prior year is also 
found in Tariff, Schedile 9-MMU, subsection (e). 
 
VIII. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 
 
Any liability of PJM arising under or in relation to this Plan shall be subject to this section VIII.  
The PJM Entities shall not be liable to any Market Participant, any party to the PJM Operating 
Agreement, any customer under the PJM Tariff, or any other person subject to this Plan in 
respect of any matter described in or contemplated by this Plan, as the same may be amended or 
supplemented from time to time, including but not limited to liability for any financial loss, loss 
of economic advantage, opportunity cost, or actual or consequential damages of any kind 
resulting from or attributable to any act or omission of any of the PJM Entities under this Plan.  
Neither the OPSI Advisory Committee nor any State Commission (including commissioners and 
staff persons) shall be liable to any person under this Plan for any financial loss, loss of 
economic advantage, opportunity cost, or actual or consequential damages associated with 
performing any of its functions or duties under this Plan. 
 
IX. ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
 
Notwithstanding any provision of the PJM Tariff or the PJM Operating Agreement, PJM and the 
Market Monitoring Unit shall not be required to use the dispute resolution procedures in the PJM 
Tariff or the PJM Operating Agreement in carrying out its duties and responsibilities under this 
Plan.  However, nothing herein shall prevent PJM or any other person from requesting the use of 
the dispute resolution procedure set forth in the PJM Tariff or the PJM Operating Agreement, as 
applicable. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 17 
 
X. EFFECTIVE DATE 
 
This Plan shall be effective as of August 1, 2008. 
 
XI. CODE OF ETHICS 
 
The Market Monitoring Unit and its employees, as applicable, shall adhere to the following Code 
of Ethics, which is reproduced from Section 17 of PJM Rate Schedule No. 46, Market 
Monitoring Services Agreement By And Between PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. And Monitoring 
Analytics, LLC entered into on December 18, 2007, and filed with the Commission to comply 
with order of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Docket Nos. EL07-56 and EL07-58 et 
al., issued March 21, 2008, 122 FERC ¶ 61,257. 
 
 A. Conflicts of Interest:  
 
1. The Market Monitoring Unit will use its best efforts to assure that all of its 
employees comply with this Code of Ethics and shall take appropriate disciplinary actions 
against employees who violate the policy. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit and its employees assisting on market 
monitoring matters for PJM, and their spouses and dependent children, may not have a direct 
equity or other financial interest in a Market Participant or in a parent, subsidiary, or affiliate of a 
Market Participant. (The term “direct” is meant to exclude investments such as mutual funds in 
which a person has no direct control, with the exception of sector-specific mutual funds.) 
 
3. The Market Monitoring Unit and its employees assisting on market 
monitoring matters for PJM, may not undertake a matter for a third party where such 
representation would require disclosure of market-sensitive or proprietary information of PJM. 
 
 B. Prohibited Engagements and Conduct by the Market Monitoring Unit:  
 
1. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees will be engaged to 
provide advice to, or undertake a matter for or on behalf of, any entity on any entity’s 
participation in the PJM Markets, except as otherwise authorized under subsections 3 and 5 
below. 
 
2. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees will be engaged by 
any entity in any litigation, open regulatory docket, alternative dispute resolution procedure, or 
arbitration with PJM, except as otherwise authorized under subsections 3 and 5 below.  
 
3. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees will be engaged to 
appear on behalf of or against any entity before a state regulatory commission within the PJM 
Region in any new engagement in the electricity business except as authorized under the PJM 
Tariff, as requested by a state regulatory commission, or as otherwise required by law.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 18 
4. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees shall accept any 
engagement by any market participant outside of the PJM Region that would require the Market 
Monitoring Unit to take a position adverse to any PJM member or inconsistent with any position 
taken by the Market Monitoring Unit in the PJM Region. 
 
5. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees will be engaged to 
appear on behalf of or against any entity before the Commission on any matter within the PJM 
Region in any new engagement in the electricity business except as authorized under the PJM 
Tariff, as requested by the Commission, or as otherwise required by law. 
 
6. Before the Market Monitoring Unit accepts any engagement on behalf of 
or against an Interested Party, it must inform the PJM General Counsel and the PJM Board of 
such potential engagement and provide the PJM Board with an opportunity to state its objection 
to such representation on the ground the engagement would present a conflict of interest or result 
in the material appearance of conflict.  At the discretion of the Market Monitoring Unit, the 
Market Monitoring Unit may notify the PJM General Counsel that the proposed engagement is 
confidential and request that the General Counsel disclose the proposed engagement only to a 
PJM Board subcommittee in a manner which limits the disclosure of nonpublic information.  
Within seven (7) Business Days of being informed of the potential engagement by the Market 
Monitoring Unit, the PJM Board shall state any objection to such potential engagement.  If the 
Market Monitoring Unit disagrees with the PJM Board’s determination regarding the potential 
engagement by the Market Monitoring Unit, the Parties shall jointly engage the Commission’s 
Dispute Resolution Service to determine whether the engagement would present a conflict of 
interest or result in the material appearance of a conflict.  Unless the Commission’s Dispute 
Resolution Service finds no conflict of interest the Market Monitoring Unit shall be precluded 
from accepting the challenged engagement.  For these purposes, the term “Interested Party” 
means (x) a Market Participant; (v) a state regulatory commission within the PJM Region; or (z) 
a person or entity with a significant direct financial interest in the organization, governance or 
operation of PJM but shall not include PJM itself. 
 
7. Employees of the Market Monitoring Unit shall not accept gifts, 
payments, favors, meals, transportation, entertainment, or services (individually, “Gift,” and 
collectively, “Gifts”), of other than nominal value within a calendar year from PJM, Authorized 
Government Agencies, any market participant, contractor, supplier or vendor to the Market 
Monitoring Unit. Except that “Gifts” shall not include any of the foregoing that is generally 
provided to the attendees of business meetings (e.g. PJM stakeholder meetings). Gifts not 
exceeding One Hundred Fifty Dollars ($150) shall be deemed to be of “nominal value.”  
Similarly, neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor any employee of the Market Monitoring Unit 
shall offer any Gift to any public official or Market Participant unless such Gifts: are legal; not 
offered for specific gain or reciprocal action; follow generally accepted ethical standards; and are 
of nominal value. 
 
8. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees shall serve as an 
officer, employee or partner of a Market Participant. 
 
9. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees shall engage in any 
transactions in the PJM markets other than the performance of their duties under the PJM Tariff. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M 
Effective Date: 7/3/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1528-000 - Page 19 
 
10. Neither the Market Monitoring Unit nor its employees shall be 
compensated, other than by PJM, for any expert witness testimony or commercial services, either 
to PJM or to any other party, in connection with legal or regulatory proceeding or commercial 
transaction relating to PJM or to PJM’s markets. 
 
11. Employees of the Market Monitoring Unit must advise their supervisor(s) in 
the event they seek employment with a Market Participant, and must disqualify themselves from 
participating in any matter that would have an effect on the financial interest of the Market 
Participant while still in the employ of the Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
 C. Compliance with All Applicable Laws:  The Market Monitoring Unit will use 
its best efforts to assure the compliance of the Market Monitoring Unit and its employees with all 
applicable laws, including but not limited to those referenced in the PJM Code of Conduct. 
 
XII. NOTICE TO MARKET PARTICIPANTS 
 
When the Tariff requires the MMU to provide written notice to or communication with a Market 
Participant, such notice or communication shall include, but not be limited to, a letter, email or 
posting to a Market Participant’s account in the internet-based application designated by the 
Market Monitoring Unit.  
  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
 
I. CONFIDENTIALITY OF DATA AND INFORMATION 
 
A. Party Access: 
 
1. No Member shall have a right hereunder to receive or review any documents, data or 
other information of another Member, including documents, data or other information provided 
to the Market Monitoring Unit, to the extent such documents, data or information have been 
designated as confidential pursuant to the procedures adopted by the Market Monitoring Unit or 
to the extent that they have been designated as confidential by such other Member; provided, 
however, a Member may receive and review any composite documents, data and other 
information that may be developed based on such confidential documents, data or information if 
the composite does not disclose any individual Member’s confidential data or information. 
 
2. Except as may be provided in this Appendix, the Plan, the PJM Operating Agreement or 
in the PJM Tariff, the Market Monitoring Unit shall not disclose to PJM Members or to third 
parties, any documents, data, or other information of a Member or entity applying for 
Membership, to the extent such documents, data, or other information has been designated 
confidential pursuant to the procedures adopted by the Market Monitoring Unit or by such 
Member or entity applying for membership; provided that nothing contained herein shall prohibit 
the Market Monitoring Unit from providing any such confidential information to its agents, 
representatives, or contractors to the extent that such person or entity is bound by an obligation 
to maintain such confidentiality. 
 
The Market Monitoring Unit, its designated agents, representatives, and contractors shall 
maintain as confidential the electronic tag (“e-Tag”) data of an e-Tag Author or Balancing 
Authority (defined as those terms are used in FERC Order No. 771) to the same extent as 
Member data under this section I.  Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the Market 
Monitoring Unit from sharing with the market monitor of another Regional Transmission 
Organization (“RTO”), Independent System Operator (“ISO”), upon their request, the e-Tags of 
an e-Tag Author or Balancing Authority for intra-PJM Region transactions and interchange 
transactions scheduled to flow into, out of or through the PJM Region, to the extent such market 
monitor has requested such information as part of its investigation of possible market violations 
or market design flaws, and to the extent that such market monitor is bound by a tariff provision 
requiring that the e-Tag data be maintained as confidential, or in the absence of a tariff 
requirement governing confidentiality, a written agreement with the Market Monitoring Unit 
consistent with FERC Order No. 771, and any clarifying orders and implementing regulations.  
 
The Market Monitoring Unit shall collect and use confidential information only in connection 
with its authority under this Appendix, the Plan, the PJM Operating Agreement or in the PJM 
Tariff and the retention of such information shall be in accordance with the Office of the 
Interconnection’s data retention policies. 
 
3. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Market Monitoring Unit from releasing a 
Member’s confidential data or information to a third party provided that the Member has 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 2 
delivered to the Market Monitoring Unit specific, written authorization for such release setting 
forth the data or information to be released, to whom such release is authorized, and the period of 
time for which such release shall be authorized. The Market Monitoring Unit shall limit the 
release of a Member’s confidential data or information to that specific authorization received 
from the Member. Nothing herein shall prohibit a Member from withdrawing such authorization 
upon written notice to the Market Monitoring Unit, who shall cease such release as soon as 
practicable after receipt of such withdrawal notice. 
 
4. Reciprocal provisions to this section I hereof, delineating the confidentiality requirements 
of the Office of the Interconnection and PJM members, are set forth in Operating Agreement, 
section 18.17.  
 
B. Required Disclosure:  
 
1. Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing section to the contrary, and subject to the 
provisions of section I.C below, if the Market Monitoring Unit is required by applicable law, 
order, or in the course of administrative or judicial proceedings, to disclose to third parties, 
information that is otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to the PJM Tariff, 
PJM Operating Agreement, Tariff, Attachment M or this Appendix, the Market Monitoring Unit 
may make disclosure of such information; provided, however, that as soon as the Market 
Monitoring Unit learns of the disclosure requirement and prior to making disclosure, the Market 
Monitoring Unit shall notify the affected Member or Members of the requirement and the terms 
thereof and the affected Member or Members may direct, at their sole discretion and cost, any 
challenge to or defense against the disclosure requirement. The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
cooperate with such affected Members to the maximum extent practicable to minimize the 
disclosure of the information consistent with applicable law. The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
cooperate with the affected Members to obtain proprietary or confidential treatment of such 
information by the person to whom such information is disclosed prior to any such disclosure. 
 
2. Nothing in this section I shall prohibit or otherwise limit the Market Monitoring Unit’s 
use of information covered herein if such information was: (i) previously known to the Market 
Monitoring Unit without an obligation of confidentiality; (ii) independently developed by or for 
the Office of the Interconnection and/or the Market Monitoring Unit using non-confidential 
information; (iii) acquired by the Office of the Interconnection and/or the Market Monitoring 
Unit from a third party which is not, to the Office of the Interconnection’s or Market Monitoring 
Unit’s knowledge, under an obligation of confidence with respect to such information; (iv) which 
is or becomes publicly available other than through a manner inconsistent with this section I. 
 
3. The Market Monitoring Unit shall impose on any contractors retained to provide 
technical support or otherwise to assist with the implementation of the Plan or this Appendix a 
contractual duty of confidentiality consistent with the Plan or this Appendix. A Member shall not 
be obligated to provide confidential or proprietary information to any contractor that does not 
assume such a duty of confidentiality, and the Market Monitoring Unit shall not provide any 
such information to any such contractor without the express written permission of the Member 
providing the information. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 3 
C. Disclosure to FERC and CFTC:  
 
1. Notwithstanding anything in this section I to the contrary, if the FERC, the Commodity 
Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) or the staff of those commissions, during the course of 
an investigation or otherwise, requests information from the Market Monitoring Unit that is 
otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to the PJM Tariff, the PJM Operating 
Agreement, the Plan or this Appendix, the Market Monitoring Unit shall provide the requested 
information to the FERC, CFTC or their staff, within the time provided for in the request for 
information. In providing the information to the FERC or its staff, the Market Monitoring Unit 
may request, consistent with 18 C.F.R. §§ 1b.20 and 388.112, or to the CFTC or its staff, the 
Market Monitoring Unit may request, consistent with 17 C.F.R. §§ 11.3 and 145.9, that the 
information be treated as confidential and non-public by the respective commission and its staff 
and that the information be withheld from public disclosure. The Market Monitoring Unit shall 
promptly notify any affected Member(s) if the Market Monitoring Unit receives from the FERC, 
CFTC or their staff, written notice that the commission has decided to release publicly or has 
asked for comment on whether such commission should release publicly, confidential 
information previously provided to a commission Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
2. The foregoing section I.C.1 shall not apply to requests for production of information 
under Subpart D of the FERC’s Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR Part 385) in 
proceedings before FERC and its administrative law judges. In all such proceedings, the Office 
of the Interconnection and/or the Market Monitoring Unit shall follow the procedures in section 
I.B. 
 
D. Disclosure to Authorized Commissions:  
 
1. Notwithstanding anything in this section I to the contrary, the Market Monitoring Unit 
shall disclose confidential information, otherwise required to be maintained in confidence 
pursuant to the PJM Tariff, the PJM Operating Agreement, the Plan or this Appendix, to an 
Authorized Commission under the following conditions: 
 
(i) The Authorized Commission has provided the FERC with a properly executed 
Certification in the form attached to the PJM Operating Agreement as Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 10A. Upon receipt of the Authorized Commission’s Certification, the FERC shall 
provide public notice of the Authorized Commission’s  filing pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 385.2009. 
If any interested party disputes the accuracy and adequacy of the representations contained in the 
Authorized Commission’s Certification, that party may file a protest with the FERC within 14 
days of the date of such notice, pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 385.211. The Authorized Commission 
may file a response to any such protest within seven days. Each party shall bear its own costs in 
connection with such a protest proceeding. If there are material changes in law that affect the 
accuracy and adequacy of the representations in the Certification filed with the FERC, the 
Authorized Commission shall, within thirty (30) days, submit an amended Certification 
identifying such changes. Any such amended Certification shall be subject to the same 
procedures for comment and review by the FERC as set forth above in this paragraph. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 4 
(ii) Neither the Office of the Interconnection nor the Market Monitoring Unit may 
disclose data to an Authorized Commission during the FERC’s consideration of the Certification 
and any filed protests. If the FERC does not act upon an Authorized Commission’s Certification 
within 90 days of the date of filing, the Certification shall be deemed approved and the 
Authorized Commission shall be permitted to receive confidential information pursuant to this 
Section I. In the event that an interested party protests the Authorized Commission’s 
Certification and the FERC approves the Certification, that party may not challenge any 
Information Request made by the Authorized Commission on the grounds that the Authorized 
Commission is unable to protect the confidentiality of the information requested, in the absence 
of a showing of changed circumstances. 
 
(iii) Any confidential information provided to an Authorized Commission pursuant to 
this section I shall not be further disclosed by the recipient Authorized Commission except by 
order of the FERC. 
 
(iv) The Market Monitoring Unit shall be expressly entitled to rely upon such 
Authorized Commission Certifications in providing confidential information to the Authorized 
Commission, and shall in no event be liable, or subject to damages or claims of any kind or 
nature hereunder, due to the ineffectiveness or inaccuracy of such Authorized Commission 
Certifications. 
 
(v) The Authorized Commission may provide confidential information obtained from 
the Market Monitoring Unit to such of its employees, attorneys and contractors as needed to 
examine or handle that information in the course and scope of their work on behalf of the 
Authorized Commission, provided that (a) the Authorized Commission has internal procedures 
in place, pursuant to the Certification, to ensure that each person receiving such information 
agrees to protect the confidentiality of such information (such employees, attorneys or 
contractors to be defined hereinafter as “Authorized Persons”); (b) the Authorized Commission 
provides, pursuant to the Certification, a list of such Authorized Persons to the Office of the 
Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit and updates such list, as necessary, every ninety 
(90) days; and (c) any third-party contractors provided access to confidential information sign a 
nondisclosure agreement in the form attached to the PJM Operating Agreement as Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 10 before being provided access to any such confidential information. 
 
2. The Market Monitoring Unit may, in the course of discussions with an Authorized 
Person, orally disclose information otherwise required to be maintained in confidence, without 
the need for a prior Information Request. Such oral disclosures shall provide enough information 
to enable the Authorized Person or the Authorized Commission with which that Authorized 
Person is associated to determine whether additional Information Requests are appropriate. The 
Market Monitoring Unit will not make any written or electronic disclosures of confidential 
information to the Authorized Person pursuant to this section I.D.2. In any such discussions, the 
Market Monitoring Unit shall ensure that the individual or individuals receiving such 
confidential information are Authorized Persons as defined herein, orally designate confidential 
information that is disclosed, and refrain from identifying any specific Affected Member whose 
information is disclosed. The Market Monitoring Unit shall also be authorized to assist 
Authorized Persons in interpreting confidential information that is disclosed. The Market 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT M – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 5 
Monitoring Unit shall provide any Affected Member with oral notice of any oral disclosure 
immediately, but not later than one (1) Business Day after the oral disclosure. Such oral notice to 
the Affected Member shall include the substance of the oral disclosure, but shall not reveal any 
confidential information of any other Member and must be received by the Affected Member 
before the name of the Affected Member is released to the Authorized Person; provided 
however, disclosure of the identity of the Affected Party must be made to the Authorized 
Commission with which the Authorized Person is associated within two (2) Business Days of the 
initial oral disclosure. 
 