ATTACHMENT H-21  
Annual Transmission Rates -- American Transmission Systems, Incorporated 
for Network Integration Transmission Service  
 
 
1. The transmission revenue requirement and the rate for Network Integration 
Transmission Service are equal to the results of the formula shown in Attachment H-
21A, and will be posted on the PJM website pursuant to Attachment H-21B (Formula 
Rate Protocols).  The transmission revenue requirement and the rate reflect the cost of 
providing transmission service over the 69 kV and higher transmission facilities of 
American Transmission Systems, Incorporated (“ATSI”).  Service utilizing other 
ATSI facilities will be provided at rates determined on a case-by-case basis and stated 
in service agreements with affected customers. 
 
2. The formula rate set forth in Attachment H-21A shall be calculated on the basis of 
projections, subject to true-up to actual data in accordance with the adjustment 
mechanism described in Attachment H-21B (Formula Rate Protocols).  
 
3. Within the ATSI Zone, a Network Customer’s peak load shall be adjusted to include 
transmission loss percentages for 69 kV and above facilities applied to the measured 
load, as well as any distribution losses as reflected in applicable state tariffs and/or 
service agreements that contain specific distribution loss factors for the Network 
Customer.  The transmission loss percentage for load served utilizing 138 kV and 
above facilities shall be 1.486 percent, and the transmission loss percentage for load 
served utilizing both 138 kV and above transmission facilities and 69 kV transmission 
facilities shall be 2.786 percent. 
 
4. The rate and revenue requirement in this attachment shall be effective until amended 
by ATSI or modified by the Commission.  
 
5. In addition to the rate set forth in paragraph 1 above, a Network Customer purchasing 
Network Integration Transmission Service shall pay for transmission congestion 
charges, in accordance with the provisions of the Tariff, and any amounts necessary 
to reimburse ATSI for applicable sales, excise, “Btu,” carbon, value-added or similar 
taxes (other than taxes based upon or measured by net income) with respect to the 
amounts payable pursuant to the Tariff. 
 
6. Network Customers within the ATSI Zone shall be credited for recovery of costs 
associated with Regional Transmission Expansion Plan (“RTEP”) projects under the 
formula rate provided in Attachment H-21A. 
 
7. [RESERVED] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT Attachment H-21A - ATSI 
Effective Date: 12/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1739-004 - Page 1 
     
