ATTACHMENT H-32B 
AMP Transmission, LLC  
Formula Rate Implementation Protocols  
ATTACHMENT H-32B-1 
ANNUAL TRUE-UP, INFORMATION EXCHANGE,  
AND CHALLENGE PROCEDURES 
(CALENDAR YEAR BASIS) 
The Formula Rate Template (“Template”) (Attachment H-32A), and these Formula 
Rate Implementation Protocols (“Protocols”) together comprise the Formula Rate of AMP 
Transmission, LLC (“AMPT”) for transmission revenue requirement determinations under the 
PJM Interconnection, LLC (“PJM”) Open Access Transmission Tariff (“PJM Tariff”).1/  AMPT 
shall follow the instructions specified in the Formula Rate to calculate its Transmission 
Revenue Requirement, initially on a projected basis (the Projected Transmission Revenue 
Requirement), and, when actual data are available, on an actual basis (the Actual Transmission 
Revenue Requirement), utilizing its Formula Rate Template for such calculations. The 
Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement and the Actual Transmission Revenue 
Requirement each shall be determined for January 1 to December 31 of a given calendar year 
(the “Rate Year”).  The Formula Rate shall become effective for recovery of AMPT’s 
Transmission Revenue Requirement upon the effective date for incorporation into the PJM 
Tariff through a filing by PJM and AMPT with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(“FERC” or “Commission”) under the Federal Power Act (“FPA”), 16 U.S.C. § 824d.  
_____________________ 
1/   These protocols shall be applied to AMPT’s transmission revenue requirement determinations in PJM Zones in 
which all other Transmission Owners calculate their transmission revenue requirements on a calendar year 
basis.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 2 
Section 1. Annual Projection  
a. No later than October 31 preceding a Rate Year, and each subsequent Rate Year, AMPT 
shall determine its Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement (“PTRR”) for the 
upcoming Rate Year in accordance with the Formula Rate, which shall include the True-Up 
Adjustment described and defined in Section 2 below, if applicable (the PTRR and any 
applicable True-Up Adjustment together comprising the “Annual Projection”).  AMPT 
shall cause an electronic version of the Annual Projection to be posted in both a Portable 
Document Format (“PDF”) and fully-functioning Excel file at a publicly accessible 
location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS.  The date on which the posting occurs 
shall be that year’s “Annual Projection Publication Date.” 
b. The posting of the Annual Projection shall:  
(i) Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as 
supporting documentation and workpapers for data that are used in the 
Annual Projection; 
(ii) Include all inputs in sufficient detail to identify the components of AMPT’s 
Annual Projection, explanations of the bases for the projections and input 
data, and sufficient detail and explanation to enable Interested Parties 2/ to 
replicate the calculation of the Annual Projection; 
__________________________ 
2/ As used in these Protocols, “Interested Parties” shall include but not be limited to: (i) any Eligible Customer 
under the PJM Tariff; (ii) any regulatory agency with rate jurisdiction over a public utility located within the PJM 
footprint; (iii) any consumer advocate authorized by state law to review and contest the rates for any such public 
utility; and (iv) any party with standing under FPA section 205 or section 206. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 3 
(iii) With respect to any Accounting Changes (as that term is defined in Section 
3.e.iii.A): 
A. Identify any Accounting Changes including: 
i. The initial implementation of an accounting 
standard or policy; 
ii. The initial implementation of accounting practices 
for unusual or unconventional items where FERC 
has not provided specific accounting direction; 
iii. Correction of errors and prior period adjustments 
that impact the Annual Projection calculation; and 
iv. The implementation of new estimation methods or 
policies that change prior estimates.  
B. Identify items included in the Annual Projection at an 
amount other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value 
adjustments);  
C. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during 
the previous year and explain the effect of the accounting 
for such transaction(s) on inputs to the Annual Projection; 
and 
D. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to Sections 
1.b.iii.A through 1.b.iii.C of these Protocols, a narrative 
explanation of the individual impact of such changes on the 
Annual Projection. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 4 
(iv) Include the following information related to affiliate cost allocation:  
A. A detailed description of the methodologies used to allocate 
and directly assign costs between AMPT and its affiliates by 
service category or function, including any changes to such 
cost allocation methodologies from the prior year, and the 
reasons for those changes; and   
B. The magnitude of such costs that have been allocated or 
directly assigned between AMPT and each affiliate by 
service category or function.  
c. If the date for making the posting of the Annual Projection should fall on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be made no later than the next 
business day.3/  Within five (5) calendar days of the posting, PJM shall provide notice of 
such posting via the PJM Members Committee email subscription (“PJM Exploder List”).  
Interested Parties can subscribe to the PJM Exploder List on the PJM website.  
d. Together with the posting of the Annual Projection, AMPT shall cause to be posted on the 
PJM internet website and OASIS, and distributed to the PJM Exploder List, the time, date, 
location, and remote-access information for a stakeholder meeting with Interested Parties 
in order for AMPT to explain its Annual Projection and to provide Interested Parties an 
opportunity to seek information and clarifications regarding the Annual Projection 
(“Annual Projection Meeting”). The Annual Projection Meeting shall be held no fewer  
_________________________ 
3/ For the purposes of these Protocols, if any deadline included in these Protocols should fall on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by FERC, then the deadline shall be extended to no later than the next business day. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 5 
 than twenty (20) business days and no more than thirty (30) business days after the posting 
of the Annual Projection.  Notice of the Annual Projection Meeting shall be provided via 
the PJM Exploder List no fewer than seven (7) calendar days prior to the meeting.  AMPT 
will provide remote access to the Annual Projection Meeting in order to ease burdens 
(e.g., travel costs) to ensure all Interested Parties have the opportunity to participate. 
e. To the extent AMPT agrees to make changes in the Annual Projection for a given Rate 
Year, such revised Annual Projection shall be promptly posted at a publicly accessible 
location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS, and e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  
Changes posted prior to November 30 preceding the Rate Year, or the next business day 
if November 30 is not a business day (or such later date as can be accommodated under 
PJM’s billing practices), shall be reflected in the Annual Projection for the Rate Year; 
changes posted after that date will be reflected, as appropriate, in the True-Up 
Adjustment for the Rate Year. 
f. The PTRR, including the True-Up Adjustment, for each Rate Year shall be subject to 
review, challenge, true-up, and refunds or surcharges with interest, to the extent and in 
the manner provided in these Protocols. 
Section 2. True-Up Adjustment 
a. Using data included in its informational FERC Form No. 1 Document 4/ for the preceding 
calendar year, AMPT will calculate the amount of under- or over-collection of its Actual 
Transmission Revenue Requirement (“ATRR”) during the preceding Rate Year (“True- 
______________________ 
4/ Although AMPT is not required to file a FERC Form 1, it will include in its Annual Update and file with the 
Commission on an informational basis each year a document (the “FERC Form 1 Document”) that presents its 
financial and operating data for the previous year in the format of, and in accordance with the instructions to, 
the FERC Form 1. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 6 
Up Adjustment”).  The True-Up Adjustment shall be the sum of the True-Up Adjustment 
Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(b) and the Interest on the True-Up 
Adjustment Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(c). 
b. The amount collected as AMPT’s transmission revenue requirement during the preceding 
calendar year will be compared to AMPT’s ATRR for the preceding Rate Year calculated 
in accordance with AMPT’s Formula Rate and based upon (i) AMPT’s informational 
FERC Form No. 1 Document for that same Rate Year, (ii) any FERC orders specifically 
applicable to AMPT’s calculation of its Transmission Revenue Requirement, (iii) the 
books and records of AMPT, which shall be maintained consistent with the FERC 
Uniform System of Accounts (“USofA”), (iv) FERC accounting policies and practices 
applicable to the calculation of annual revenue requirements under formula rates, and (v) 
any aspects of the PJM Tariff Governing Documents 5/ that apply to the calculation of 
annual revenue requirements under individual transmission owner formula rates, to 
determine any over- or under-recovery (“True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery”). 
c. Interest on any True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery shall be calculated for the 
thirty-six (36) months during which the over or under recovery in the revenue 
requirement remains outstanding (i.e., from January 1 of the Rate Year being trued-up 
through December 31 of the year in which the True-Up Adjustment Over/Under recovery 
is credited or collected). The interest rate to be applied to the True-Up Adjustment 
Over/Under  Recovery  amounts  will be determined  using  the average monthly FERC  
_______________________ 
5/ “PJM Tariff Governing Documents” include the PJM Tariff, Bylaws, Criteria, and Membership Agreements.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 7 
 Interest Rate (as determined pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a) for the twenty (20) months 
from the beginning of the Rate Year being trued-up through August 31 of the following 
year. 
Section 3. Annual Update 
a. On or before June 1 of the year following each Rate Year, AMPT shall calculate its 
ATRR and the True-Up Adjustment as described in Section 2 (the ATRR and the True-
Up Adjustment together comprising the “Annual Update”) for such Rate Year and, 
together with such other information described in this Section 3, shall cause such Annual 
Update to be posted, in both a PDF and fully-functioning Excel format, at a publicly 
accessible location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS.  Within five (5) calendar days 
of such posting, PJM shall provide notice of such posting via the PJM Exploder List. 
b. If the date for making the Annual Update posting should fall on a weekend or a holiday 
recognized by the FERC, then the posting shall be due on the next business day. 
c. The date on which the posting occurs shall be that year’s “Annual Update Publication 
Date.” 
d. Together with the posting of the Annual Update, AMPT shall cause to be posted on the 
PJM website and OASIS the time, date, location, and remote-access information for a 
stakeholder meeting with Interested Parties in order for AMPT to explain its Annual 
Update and to provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and 
clarifications regarding the Annual Update (“Annual Update Meeting”).  The Annual 
Update Meeting shall be held between a date that is not sooner than twenty (20) business 
days after the Annual Update Publication Date and September 1, provided that notice of 
the Annual Update Meeting shall be given via the PJM Exploder List no fewer than seven 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 8 
(7) calendar days prior to the meeting.  AMPT will provide remote access to the Annual 
Update Meeting in order to ease burdens (e.g., travel costs) to ensure all Interested Parties 
have the opportunity to participate. 
e. The Annual Update posting for the Rate Year: 
(i) Shall provide, via the Formula Rate worksheets, sufficiently detailed 
supporting documentation for data (and all adjustments thereto or 
allocations thereof) used in the Formula Rate that are not stated in the 
FERC Form No. 1 Document;6/ 
(ii) Shall provide sufficient detail and sufficient explanation to enable 
Interested Parties to replicate the calculation of the Annual Update results 
from the FERC Form No. 1 Document and verify that each input to the 
Template is consistent with the requirements of the Formula Rate; 
(iii) Shall identify: 
A. Any change in accounting that affects inputs to the Template or the 
resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate (“Accounting 
Change”), including: 
i. The initial implementation of an accounting 
standard or policy; 
__________________ 
6/ It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocations described therein, that 
each input to the Formula Rate for purposes of determining the actual Net Revenue Requirement for a given 
Rate Year will be either taken directly from the FERC Form No. 1 Document or reconcilable to the FERC Form 
No. 1 Document by the application of clearly identified and supported information.  If the Form No. 1 is 
superseded, the successor form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as necessary to provide equivalent 
information as that provided in the Form No. 1. If the FERC Form No. 1 is discontinued, equivalent information 
as that provided in the FERC Form No. 1 shall be utilized. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 9 
ii. The initial implementation of accounting practices 
for unusual or unconventional items where FERC 
has not provided specific accounting direction; 
iii. Correction of errors and prior period adjustments 
that impact the True-Up Adjustment calculation; 
and 
iv. The implementation of new estimation methods or 
policies that change prior estimates.  
B. Any items included in the Annual Update at an amount 
other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value 
adjustments); 
C. Any reorganization or merger transaction during the 
previous year and an explanation of the effect of the 
accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to the Annual 
Update; and  
D. For each item identified pursuant to Sections 3.e.iii.A – C 
of these Protocols, the individual impact (in narrative 
format) of such changes on the Annual Update; 
(iv) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Sections 4, 5, and 6 of these Protocols; 
(v) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in these Protocols with respect to the prudence of any costs and 
expenditures included for recovery in the Annual Update; provided, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 10 
however, that nothing in these Protocols is intended to modify the 
Commission’s applicable precedent with respect to the burden of going 
forward or burden of proof under formula rates in such prudence 
challenges; and 
(vi) Shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be subject to 
challenge by any Interested Party seeking to modify the Formula Rate 
(i.e., any modifications to the Formula Rate will require, as applicable, 
appropriate FPA filings or the initiation of an FPA investigation). 
f. The following Formula Rate inputs shall be stated values to be used in the Formula Rate 
until changed pursuant to a filing with the Commission requesting such change: 
(i) Margin Factor; (ii) costs subject to deferred cost recovery; and (iii) amortization period 
over which deferred costs are recovered.  
g. Example – Timelines for 2019 Annual Projection and 2020 Annual Update: 
On or before October 31, 2018, AMPT will determine the PTRR for the 2019 Rate Year.  
AMPT will post the Annual Projection for the 2019 Rate Year in accordance with 
Section 1 above.  On or before June 1, 2020, AMPT will post its Annual Update, 
consisting of the ATRR and True-Up Adjustment for the 2019 Rate Year determined 
pursuant to Section 2 above.  Such True-Up Adjustment will be reflected in the Annual 
Projection of AMPT’s Transmission Revenue Requirement for the 2021 Rate Year 
posted on or before October 31, 2020. 
Section 4. Annual Review Procedures 
Each Annual Update and Annual Projection shall be subject to the following review 
procedures (“Annual Review Procedures”): 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 11 
a. Interested Parties shall have up to the later of two-hundred-ten (210) calendar days after 
the applicable Publication Date, or thirty (30) calendar days after the receipt of all 
responses to timely submitted information requests (unless such period is extended with 
the written consent of AMPT or by FERC order) (“Review Period”), to review the 
calculations and to notify AMPT in writing of any specific challenges to the Annual 
Update or Annual Projection (“Preliminary Challenge”), including challenges related to 
Accounting Changes.  An Interested Party submitting a Preliminary Challenge must 
specify the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information 
to which it objects, and provide an appropriate explanation and documents to support its 
challenge.  AMPT shall cause to be posted all Preliminary Challenges at a publicly 
accessible location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS, and a link to the website will 
be e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List. 
b. In the event of a Preliminary Challenge, AMPT will appoint a senior representative to 
work with the Interested Party (or its representatives) toward a resolution of the dispute. 
c. AMPT shall respond in writing to a Preliminary Challenge within twenty (20) business 
days of receipt, and its response shall notify the challenging party of the extent to which 
AMPT agrees or disagrees with the challenge.  If AMPT disagrees with the Preliminary 
Challenge, it will provide the Interested Party with an explanation supporting the 
challenged inputs, explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information.  AMPT 
shall promptly cause to be posted its responses to all Preliminary Challenges at a publicly 
accessible location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS, and a link to the website will 
be e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Preliminary 
Challenges and responses to Preliminary Challenges that include material deemed by 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 12 
AMPT to be confidential information will not be publicly posted but will be made 
available to requesting parties pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to be executed by 
AMPT and the requesting party. 
d. AMPT shall respond to all Preliminary Challenges submitted during the Review Period 
by no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the end of the Review Period. 
e. Interested Parties shall have up to one-hundred-fifty (150) calendar days after each 
annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of 
AMPT or by FERC order) to serve reasonable information requests on AMPT 
(“Discovery Period”).   
f. Information requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine: (i) the extent, 
effect, or impact of an Accounting Change; (ii) whether the Annual Update or Annual 
Projection fails to include data properly recorded in accordance with the Protocols; 
(iii) the proper application of the Template and procedures in the Protocols; (iv) the 
accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the charges shown in the 
Annual Update or Annual Projection; (v) the prudence of the actual costs and 
expenditures, including procurement methods and cost control methodologies; (vi) the 
effect of any change to the underlying USofA or FERC Form No. 1 Document; and (vii) 
any other information that may reasonably have substantive effect on the calculation of 
the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate.  The information requests shall not otherwise be 
directed to ascertaining whether the Formula Rate is just and reasonable.  Information 
requests shall not solicit information concerning costs or allocations where the costs or 
allocation methods have been determined to be appropriate by FERC in the context of 
prior AMPT Annual Updates, except that such information requests shall be permitted if 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 13 
they (i) seek to determine if there has been a change in circumstances, (ii) are in 
connection with corrections pursuant to Section 6 of these Protocols, or (iii) relate to 
costs or allocations that have not previously been challenged and adjudicated by FERC. 
g. AMPT shall make a good faith effort to respond to reasonable information requests 
pertaining to the Annual Update or Annual Projection within fifteen (15) business days of 
receipt of such requests.  AMPT shall respond to all reasonable information requests no 
later than thirty (30) calendar days after the end of the Discovery Period.  AMPT will 
cause to be posted on the PJM website and OASIS all information requests from 
Interested Parties and AMPT’s response(s) to such requests, and a link to the website will 
be e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, information and 
document requests and responses to information and document requests that include 
material deemed by AMPT to be confidential information will not be publicly posted but 
will be made available to requesting parties pursuant to a confidentiality agreement to be 
executed by AMPT and the requesting party.  Voluminous materials will be made 
available at a physical AMPT site. 
h. AMPT shall not claim that responses to information and document requests provided 
pursuant to these Protocols are subject to any settlement privilege in any subsequent 
FERC proceeding addressing AMPT’s Annual Update or Annual Projection. 
i. To the extent AMPT and any Interested Party(ies) are unable to resolve disputes related 
to information requests submitted in accordance with these Annual Review Procedures, 
AMPT or the Interested Party may petition the FERC to appoint an Administrative Law 
Judge as a discovery master to resolve the discovery dispute(s) in accordance with these 
Protocols and consistent with the FERC’s discovery rules. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 14 
j. Preliminary Challenges or Formal Challenges (as described in Sections 4 and 5) related to 
Accounting Changes shall be treated in the same manner under these Protocols as other 
challenges to the Annual Update or Annual Projection.  Failure to make a Preliminary 
Challenge with respect to an Accounting Change in an Annual Update or Annual 
Projection shall not act as a bar with respect to a Formal Challenge with respect to that 
Annual Update or Annual Projection provided that the Interested Party submitted a 
Preliminary Challenge with respect to one or more other issues.  Nor shall such failure bar 
a subsequent Preliminary Challenge related to a subsequent Annual Update or Annual 
Projection to the extent such Accounting Change affects the subsequent Annual Update 
or Annual Projection. 
k. If a change made by AMPT to its accounting policies, practices, or procedures, or the 
application of the Formula Rate, is found by the FERC to be unjust, unreasonable, or 
unduly discriminatory or preferential, then the calculation of the charges to be assessed 
during the Rate Year then under review, and the charges to be assessed during any 
subsequent Rate Years, including any True-up Adjustments, shall not include such 
change, but shall include any remedy that may be prescribed by FERC in the exercise of 
its discretion as of the effective date of such remedy, to ensure that the Formula Rate 
continues to operate in a manner that is just, reasonable, and not unduly discriminatory or 
preferential.  
Section 5. Resolution of Challenges 
a. Interested Parties shall have up to two-hundred-seventy (270) days following the 
applicable Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of 
AMPT or by FERC order), to file a challenge with the FERC (“Formal Challenge”).  Such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 15 
Formal Challenge shall be submitted in the same docket as the AMPT informational filing 
and shall be served on AMPT by electronic service on the date of such filing in accordance 
with Section 385.2010(f)(3) of the Commission’s regulations. Subject to any applicable 
confidentiality and Critical Energy Infrastructure Information restrictions, all information 
and correspondence produced by AMPT pursuant to these Protocols may be included in 
any Formal Challenge or other FERC proceeding relating to the Formula Rate. 
b. Formal Challenges are to be filed pursuant to these Protocols, rather than under Rule 206, 
and shall: 
(i) Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the 
Formula Rate Template or Protocols; 
(ii) Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed rate Template or 
Protocols; 
(iii) Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues presented by 
the action or inaction as such relate to or affect the party filing the Formal 
Challenge, including 
A. The extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
B. Whether the Annual Update or Annual Projection fails to 
include data properly recorded in accordance with these 
Protocols; 
C. The proper application of the Template and procedures in 
these Protocols; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 16 
D. The accuracy of the data and consistency with the Formula 
Rate of the charges shown in the Annual Update or Annual 
Projection; 
E. The prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
F. The effect of any change to the underlying USofA or the 
FERC Form No. 1 Document; or 
G. Any other information that may reasonably have substantive 
effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the 
Formula Rate. 
(iv) Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if any) 
created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of the action or 
inaction; 
(v) State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing Commission 
proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the filing party is 
a party, and if so, provide an explanation why timely resolution cannot be 
achieved in that forum; 
(vi) State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for stay 
or extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
(vii) Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in 
possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, including, but 
not limited to, contracts and affidavits; and  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 17 
(viii) State whether the filing party utilized the Preliminary Challenge 
procedures described in these Protocols to dispute the action or inaction 
raised by the Formal Challenge, and, if not, describe why not. 
c. Preliminary and Formal Challenges shall be limited to issues that may be necessary to 
determine: (i) the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; (ii) whether the Annual 
Update or Annual Projection fails to include data properly recorded in accordance with 
these Protocols; (iii) the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these 
Protocols; (iv) the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
calculations shown in the Annual Update and Annual Projection; (v) the prudence of 
actual costs and expenditures; (vi) the effect of any change to the underlying USofA or 
FERC Form No. 1 Document; or (vii) any other information that may reasonably have 
substantive effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
d. Failure to raise an issue in a Preliminary Challenge shall not bar an Interested Party from 
raising that issue in a Formal Challenge, provided the Interested Party submitted a 
Preliminary Challenge during the Review Period with respect to one or more other issues.  
Failure to pursue an issue through a Preliminary Challenge or to lodge a Formal 
Challenge regarding any issue as to a given Annual Update shall bar pursuit of such issue 
with respect to that Annual Update, but shall not bar pursuit of such issue or the lodging 
of a Formal Challenge as to such issue as it relates to a subsequent Annual Update. 
e. Any response by AMPT to a Formal Challenge must be submitted to the FERC within 
thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the filing of the Formal Challenge (or such later 
date as FERC may establish), and shall be served on the filing party(ies) and the PJM 
Exploder List on the date of such filing. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 18 
f. In any Formal Challenge proceeding concerning an Annual Update (including 
corrections), Annual Projection, or Accounting Change(s), AMPT shall demonstrate the 
justness and reasonableness of the rate resulting from its application of the Formula Rate 
by demonstrating that it has correctly applied the terms of the Formula Rate consistent 
with these Protocols and that it followed the applicable requirements and procedures in 
applying the Formula Rate.  Nothing herein is intended to alter the burdens applied by 
FERC with respect to prudence challenges. 
g. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any 
way the right of AMPT to file unilaterally, pursuant to the FPA and the regulations 
thereunder, an application seeking changes to the Formula Rate or to any of the stated 
value inputs requiring a prior filing under these Protocols (including, but not limited to, 
the Margin Factor, and the scope of and amortization period for any deferred costs), or 
the right of any other party or the Commission to seek such changes pursuant to the FPA 
and the regulations thereunder. 
Section 6. Changes to Annual Updates  
If AMPT determines or concedes that corrections to the Annual Update are required, 
whether under Section 4 or 5 of these Protocols, including but not limited to those requiring 
corrections to its FERC Form No. 1 Document, or input data used for a Rate Year that would 
have affected the Annual Update for that Rate Year, such corrections shall be reflected as 
adjustments in the Annual Update for the next Rate Year, with interest calculated in accordance 
with the FERC Interest Rate (as determined pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a).  This reconciliation 
mechanism shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments. 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 19 
ATTACHMENT H-32B 
AMP Transmission, LLC  
Formula Rate Implementation Protocols  
 
ATTACHMENT H-32B-2 
ANNUAL TRUE-UP, INFORMATION EXCHANGE,  
AND CHALLENGE PROCEDURES 
(NON-CALENDAR YEAR BILLING ZONES) 
The Formula Rate Template (“Template”) (Attachment H-32A), and these Formula Rate 
Implementation Protocols for Non-Calendar Year Billing Zones (“Protocols”) together comprise 
the Formula Rate of AMP Transmission, LLC (“AMPT”) for transmission revenue requirement 
determinations under the PJM Interconnection, LLC (“PJM”) Open Access Transmission Tariff 
(“PJM Tariff”) in zones in which billing is performed on other than a calendar year basis. For 
transmission zones in which billing is performed on a calendar year basis, the protocols set forth 
in Attachment H-32B-1 shall apply.   
AMPT shall follow the instructions specified in the Formula Rate to calculate its 
Transmission Revenue Requirement, initially on a projected basis (the Projected Transmission 
Revenue Requirement), and, when actual data are available, on an actual basis (the Actual 
Transmission Revenue Requirement), utilizing its Formula Rate Template for such calculations. 
The Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement (“PTRR”) and the Actual Transmission 
Revenue Requirement (“ATRR”) each shall be determined for January 1 to December 31 of a 
given calendar year (the “Financial Year”).  The PTRR will be recovered through charges to 
customers assessed during the twelve-month billing period used in the zone (the “Rate Year”).  
For purposes of clarity, a given Financial Year may be referred to in these Protocols as 
“Financial Year n” and the Rate Year in which the PTRR for Financial Year n is recovered may 
be referred to as “Rate Year n.”  The Formula Rate shall become effective for recovery of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 20 
AMPT’s Transmission Revenue Requirement upon the effective date for incorporation into the 
PJM Tariff through a filing by PJM and AMPT with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(“FERC” or “Commission”) under the Federal Power Act (“FPA”), 16 U.S.C. § 824d.  
Section 1. Annual Projection  
a. No later than sixty (60) days before the start of a Rate Year, and each subsequent 
Rate Year, AMPT shall determine its PTRR for the then-current Financial Year which shall be 
recovered through charges during the upcoming Rate Year in accordance with the Formula Rate, 
and which shall include the True-Up Adjustment described and defined in Section 2 below (the 
PTRR and any applicable True-Up Adjustment together comprising the “Annual Projection”).  
For example, for a Rate Year beginning on June 1, 2020, the PTRR would be calculated based 
upon the Financial Year January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020.  AMPT shall cause an 
electronic version of the Annual Projection to be posted in both a Portable Document Format 
(“PDF”) and fully-functioning Excel file at a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet 
website and OASIS.  The date on which the posting occurs shall be that year’s “Annual 
Projection Publication Date.” 
b. The posting of the Annual Projection shall:  
(i) Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting 
documentation and workpapers for data that are used in the Annual Projection; 
(ii) Include all inputs in sufficient detail to identify the components of AMPT’s 
Annual Projection, explanations of the bases for the projections and input data, and sufficient 
detail and explanation to enable “Interested Parties” [defined as including but not limited to: (i) 
any Eligible Customer under the PJM Tariff; (ii) any regulatory agency with rate jurisdiction 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 21 
over a public utility located within the PJM footprint; (iii) any consumer advocate authorized by 
state law to review and contest the rates for any such public utility; and (iv) any party with 
standing under FPA section 205 or section 206] to replicate the calculation of the Annual 
Projection; 
(iii) With respect to any Accounting Changes (as that term is defined in Section 
3.e.iii.A): 
A. Identify any Accounting Changes including: 
i. The initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy; 
ii. The initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific accounting 
direction; 
iii. Correction of errors and prior period adjustments that impact the 
Annual Projection calculation; and 
iv. The implementation of new estimation methods or policies that 
change prior estimates.  
B. Identify items included in the Annual Projection at an amount other than 
on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments);  
C. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year 
and explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to the Annual 
Projection; and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 22 
D. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to Section 1.b.iii.A - C of these 
Protocols, a narrative explanation of the individual impact of such changes on the Annual 
Projection. 
(iv) Include the following information related to affiliate cost allocation:  
A. A detailed description of the methodologies used to allocate and directly 
assign costs between AMPT and its affiliates by service category or function, including 
any changes to such cost allocation methodologies from the prior year, and the reasons 
for those changes; and   
B. The magnitude of such costs that have been allocated or directly assigned 
between AMPT and each affiliate by service category or function.  
c. If the date for making the posting of the Annual Projection should fall on a 
weekend or a holiday recognized by FERC, then the posting shall be made no later than the next 
business day.  For the purposes of these Protocols, if any deadline included in these Protocols 
should fall on a weekend or a holiday recognized by FERC, then the deadline shall be extended 
to no later than the next business day.  Within five (5) calendar days of the posting, PJM shall 
provide notice of such posting via the PJM Members Committee email subscription (“PJM 
Exploder List”).  Interested Parties can subscribe to the PJM Exploder List on the PJM website.  
d. Together with the posting of the Annual Projection, AMPT shall cause to be 
posted on the PJM internet website and OASIS, and distributed to the PJM Exploder List, the 
time, date, location, and remote-access information for a stakeholder meeting with Interested 
Parties in order for AMPT to explain its Annual Projection and to provide Interested Parties an 
opportunity to seek information and clarifications regarding the Annual Projection (“Annual 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 23 
Projection Meeting”). The Annual Projection Meeting shall be held no fewer than twenty (20) 
business days and no more than thirty (30) business days after the posting of the Annual 
Projection.  Notice of the Annual Projection Meeting shall be provided via the PJM Exploder 
List no fewer than seven (7) calendar days prior to the meeting.  AMPT will provide remote 
access to the Annual Projection Meeting in order to ease burdens (e.g., travel costs) to ensure all 
Interested Parties have the opportunity to participate. 
e. To the extent AMPT agrees to make changes in the Annual Projection for a given 
Financial Year, such revised Annual Projection shall be promptly posted at a publicly accessible 
location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS, and e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  Changes 
posted earlier than thirty (30) days before the start of the Rate Year, or the next business day if 
such date is not a business day (or such later date as can be accommodated under PJM’s billing 
practices), shall be reflected in the Annual Projection to be charged during the Rate Year; 
changes posted after that date will be reflected, as appropriate, in the True-Up Adjustment for the 
Financial Year. 
f. The PTRR, including the True-Up Adjustment, for each Financial Year, shall be 
subject to review, challenge, true-up, and refunds or surcharges with interest, to the extent and in 
the manner provided in these Protocols. 
Section 2. True-Up Adjustment 
a. Although AMPT is not required to file a FERC Form 1, it will include in its 
Annual Update, as defined below, and file with the Commission on an informational basis each 
year a document (the “FERC Form 1 Document”) that presents its financial and operating data 
for the previous year in the format of, and in accordance with the instructions to, the FERC Form 
1.  Using data included in its informational FERC Form No. 1 Document for the preceding 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 24 
Financial Year n, AMPT will calculate the amount of under- or over-collection of its ATRR to 
be recovered during the Rate Year n+2 (“True-Up Adjustment”).  The True-Up Adjustment shall 
be the sum of the True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(b) and 
the Interest on the True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery as determined in Section 2(c).   
b. The amount collected for AMPT’s transmission revenue requirement during the 
any Rate Year will be compared to AMPT’s ATRR for the corresponding Financial Year 
calculated in accordance with AMPT’s Formula Rate and based upon (i) AMPT’s informational 
FERC Form No. 1 Document for that same Financial Year, (ii) any FERC orders specifically 
applicable to AMPT’s calculation of its Transmission Revenue Requirement, (iii) the books and 
records of AMPT, which shall be maintained consistent with the FERC Uniform System of 
Accounts (“USofA”), (iv) FERC accounting policies and practices applicable to the calculation 
of annual revenue requirements under formula rates, and (v) any aspects of the PJM Tariff 
Governing Documents, which include the PJM Tariff, Bylaws, Criteria, and Membership 
Agreements, that apply to the calculation of annual revenue requirements under individual 
transmission owner formula rates, to determine any over- or under-recovery (“True-Up 
Adjustment Over/Under Recovery”).   
c. Interest on any True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery shall be calculated for 
the time period during which the over or under recovery in the revenue requirement remains 
outstanding. For example, the True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery for Financial Year n 
shall be collected or refunded with interest in Rate Year n+2.  The interest rate to be applied to 
the True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery amounts will be determined using the average 
monthly FERC Interest Rate (as determined pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a) for the twenty (20) 
months from the beginning of Rate Year n. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 25 
Section 3. Annual Update 
a. On or before sixty days prior to the start of Rate Year n, AMPT shall calculate 
and post the PTRR for Financial Year n, the ATRR for Financial Year n-2,  and the True Up 
Adjustment for Financial Year n-2 (“Annual Update”).   AMPT shall cause such Annual Update 
to be posted, in both a PDF and fully-functioning Excel format, at a publicly accessible location 
on PJM’s internet website and OASIS.  Within five (5) calendar days of such posting, PJM shall 
provide notice of such posting via the PJM Exploder List.  There will not be a True-Up 
Adjustment until this rate has been in effect for two Rate Years. 
b. If the date for making the Annual Update posting should fall on a weekend or a 
holiday recognized by the FERC, then the posting shall be due on the next business day. 
c. The date on which the posting occurs shall be that year’s “Annual Update 
Publication Date.” 
d. Together with the posting of the Annual Update, AMPT shall cause to be posted 
on the PJM website and OASIS the time, date, location, and remote-access information for a 
stakeholder meeting with Interested Parties in order for AMPT to explain its Annual Update and 
to provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and clarifications regarding the 
Annual Update (“Annual Update Meeting”).  The Annual Update Meeting shall be held between 
a date that is not sooner than twenty (20) business days and no later than ninety (90) business 
days after the Annual Update Publication Date, provided that notice of the Annual Update 
Meeting shall be given via the PJM Exploder List no fewer than seven (7) calendar days prior to 
the meeting.  AMPT will provide remote access to the Annual Update Meeting in order to ease 
burdens (e.g., travel costs) to ensure all Interested Parties have the opportunity to participate. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 26 
e. The Annual Update posting for the Rate Year: 
(i) Shall provide, via the Formula Rate worksheets, sufficiently detailed supporting 
documentation for data (and all adjustments thereto or allocations thereof) used in the Formula 
Rate that are not stated in the FERC Form No. 1 Document.  It is the intent of the Formula Rate, 
including the supporting explanations and allocations described therein, that each input to the 
Formula Rate for purposes of determining the actual Net Revenue Requirement for a given Rate 
Year will be either taken directly from the FERC Form No. 1 Document or reconcilable to the 
FERC Form No. 1 Document by the application of clearly identified and supported information.  
If the Form No. 1 is superseded, the successor form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as 
necessary to provide equivalent information as that provided in the Form No. 1. If the FERC 
Form No. 1 is discontinued, equivalent information as that provided in the FERC Form No. 1 
shall be utilized; 
(ii) Shall provide sufficient detail and sufficient explanation to enable Interested 
Parties to replicate the calculation of the Annual Update results from the FERC Form No. 1 
Document and verify that each input to the Template is consistent with the requirements of the 
Formula Rate; 
(iii) Shall identify: 
A. Any change in accounting that affects inputs to the Template or the 
resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate (“Accounting Change”), including: 
i. The initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 27 
ii. The initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific accounting 
direction; 
iii. Correction of errors and prior period adjustments that impact the 
True-Up Adjustment calculation; and 
iv. The implementation of new estimation methods or policies that 
change prior estimates.  
B. Any items included in the Annual Update at an amount other than on a 
historic cost basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
C. Any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous Financial 
Year and an explanation of the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs 
to the Annual Update; and  
D. For each item identified pursuant to Sections 3.e.iii.A – C of these 
Protocols, the individual impact (in narrative format) of such changes on the Annual 
Update; 
(iv) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections 4, 5, and 6 of these Protocols; 
(v) Shall be subject to review and challenge in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in these Protocols with respect to the prudence of any costs and expenditures included for 
recovery in the Annual Update; provided, however, that nothing in these Protocols is intended to 
modify the Commission’s applicable precedent with respect to the burden of going forward or 
burden of proof under formula rates in such prudence challenges; and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 28 
(vi) Shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be subject to challenge by 
any Interested Party seeking to modify the Formula Rate (i.e., any modifications to the Formula 
Rate will require, as applicable, appropriate FPA filings or the initiation of an FPA 
investigation). 
f. The following Formula Rate inputs shall be stated values to be used in the 
Formula Rate until changed pursuant to a filing with the Commission requesting such change: 
(i) Margin Factor; (ii) costs subject to deferred cost recovery; and (iii) amortization period over 
which deferred costs are recovered.  
Section 4. Annual Review Procedures 
Each Annual Update shall be subject to the following review procedures (“Annual 
Review Procedures”): 
a. Interested Parties shall have up to the later of two-hundred-ten (210) calendar 
days after the applicable Publication Date, or thirty (30) calendar days after the receipt of all 
responses to timely submitted information requests (unless such period is extended with the 
written consent of AMPT or by FERC order) (“Review Period”), to review the calculations and 
to notify AMPT in writing of any specific challenges to the Annual Update (“Preliminary 
Challenge”), including challenges related to Accounting Changes.  An Interested Party 
submitting a Preliminary Challenge must specify the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations, 
calculations, or other information to which it objects, and provide an appropriate explanation and 
documents to support its challenge.  AMPT shall cause to be posted all Preliminary Challenges at 
a publicly accessible location on PJM’s internet website and OASIS, and a link to the website 
will be e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 29 
b. In the event of a Preliminary Challenge, AMPT will appoint a senior 
representative to work with the Interested Party (or its representatives) toward a resolution of the 
dispute. 
c. AMPT shall respond in writing to a Preliminary Challenge within twenty (20) 
business days of receipt, and its response shall notify the challenging party of the extent to which 
AMPT agrees or disagrees with the challenge.  If AMPT disagrees with the Preliminary 
Challenge, it will provide the Interested Party with an explanation supporting the challenged 
inputs, explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information.  AMPT shall promptly cause 
to be posted its responses to all Preliminary Challenges at a publicly accessible location on 
PJM’s internet website and OASIS, and a link to the website will be e-mailed to the PJM 
Exploder List.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Preliminary Challenges and responses to 
Preliminary Challenges that include material deemed by AMPT to be confidential information 
will not be publicly posted but will be made available to requesting parties pursuant to a 
confidentiality agreement to be executed by AMPT and the requesting party. 
d. AMPT shall respond to all Preliminary Challenges submitted during the Review 
Period by no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the end of the Review Period. 
e. Interested Parties shall have up to one-hundred-fifty (150) calendar days after 
each annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of AMPT 
or by FERC order) to serve reasonable information requests on AMPT (“Discovery Period”).   
f. Information requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine: (i) the 
extent, effect, or impact of an Accounting Change; (ii) whether the Annual Update fails to 
include data properly recorded in accordance with the Protocols; (iii) the proper application of 
the Template and procedures in the Protocols; (iv) the accuracy of data and consistency with the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 30 
Formula Rate of the charges shown in the Annual Update; (v) the prudence of the actual costs 
and expenditures, including procurement methods and cost control methodologies; (vi) the effect 
of any change to the underlying USofA or FERC Form No. 1 Document; and (vii) any other 
information that may reasonably have substantive effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant 
to the Formula Rate.  The information requests shall not otherwise be directed to ascertaining 
whether the Formula Rate is just and reasonable.  Information requests shall not solicit 
information concerning costs or allocations where the costs or allocation methods have been 
determined to be appropriate by FERC in the context of prior AMPT Annual Updates, except 
that such information requests shall be permitted if they (i) seek to determine if there has been a 
change in circumstances, (ii) are in connection with corrections pursuant to Section 6 of these 
Protocols, or (iii) relate to costs or allocations that have not previously been challenged and 
adjudicated by FERC. 
g. AMPT shall make a good faith effort to respond to reasonable information 
requests pertaining to the Annual Update within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such 
requests.  AMPT shall respond to all reasonable information requests no later than thirty (30) 
calendar days after the end of the Discovery Period.  AMPT will cause to be posted on the PJM 
website and OASIS all information requests from Interested Parties and AMPT’s response(s) to 
such requests, and a link to the website will be e-mailed to the PJM Exploder List.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, information and document requests and responses to information 
and document requests that include material deemed by AMPT to be confidential information 
will not be publicly posted but will be made available to requesting parties pursuant to a 
confidentiality agreement to be executed by AMPT and the requesting party.  Voluminous 
materials will be made available at a physical AMPT site. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 31 
h. AMPT shall not claim that responses to information and document requests 
provided pursuant to these Protocols are subject to any settlement privilege in any subsequent 
FERC proceeding addressing AMPT’s Annual Update. 
i. To the extent AMPT and any Interested Party(ies) are unable to resolve disputes 
related to information requests submitted in accordance with these Annual Review Procedures, 
AMPT or the Interested Party may petition the FERC to appoint an Administrative Law Judge as 
a discovery master to resolve the discovery dispute(s) in accordance with these Protocols and 
consistent with the FERC’s discovery rules. 
j. Preliminary Challenges or Formal Challenges (as described in Sections 4 and 5) 
related to Accounting Changes shall be treated in the same manner under these Protocols as other 
challenges to the Annual Update.  Failure to make a Preliminary Challenge with respect to an 
Accounting Change in an Annual Update shall not act as a bar with respect to a Formal 
Challenge with respect to that Annual Update provided that the Interested Party submitted a 
Preliminary Challenge with respect to one or more other issues.  Nor shall such failure bar a 
subsequent Preliminary Challenge related to a subsequent Annual Update to the extent such 
Accounting Change affects the subsequent Annual Update. 
k. If a change made by AMPT to its accounting policies, practices, or procedures, or 
the application of the Formula Rate, is found by the FERC to be unjust, unreasonable, or unduly 
discriminatory or preferential, then the calculation of the charges to be assessed during the Rate 
Year then under review, and the charges to be assessed during any subsequent Rate Years, 
including any True-up Adjustments, shall not include such change, but shall include any remedy 
that may be prescribed by FERC in the exercise of its discretion as of the effective date of such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 32 
remedy, to ensure that the Formula Rate continues to operate in a manner that is just, reasonable, 
and not unduly discriminatory or preferential.  
Section 5. Resolution of Challenges 
a. Interested Parties shall have up to two-hundred-seventy (270) days following the 
applicable Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent of AMPT or 
by FERC order), to file a challenge with the FERC (“Formal Challenge”).  Such Formal 
Challenge shall be submitted in the same docket as the AMPT informational filing and shall be 
served on AMPT by electronic service on the date of such filing in accordance with Section 
385.2010(f)(3) of the Commission’s regulations. Subject to any applicable confidentiality and 
Critical Energy Infrastructure Information restrictions, all information and correspondence 
produced by AMPT pursuant to these Protocols may be included in any Formal Challenge or 
other FERC proceeding relating to the Formula Rate. 
b. Formal Challenges are to be filed pursuant to these Protocols, rather than under 
Rule 206, and shall: 
(i) Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the Formula Rate 
Template or Protocols; 
(ii) Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed rate Template or Protocols; 
(iii) Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues presented by the 
action or inaction as such relate to or affect the party filing the Formal Challenge, including 
A. The extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
B. Whether the Annual Update fails to include data properly recorded in 
accordance with these Protocols; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 33 
C. The proper application of the Template and procedures in these Protocols; 
D. The accuracy of the data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
charges shown in the Annual Update; 
E. The prudence of actual costs and expenditures; 
F. The effect of any change to the underlying USofA or the FERC Form No. 
1 Document; or 
G. Any other information that may reasonably have substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
(iv) Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if any) 
created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of the action or inaction; 
(v) State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing Commission 
proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the filing party is a party, and if so, 
provide an explanation why timely resolution cannot be achieved in that forum; 
(vi) State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for stay or 
extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
(vii) Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in possession 
of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, including, but not limited to, contracts and 
affidavits; and  
(viii) State whether the filing party utilized the Preliminary Challenge procedures 
described in these Protocols to dispute the action or inaction raised by the Formal Challenge, 
and, if not, describe why not. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 34 
c. Preliminary and Formal Challenges shall be limited to issues that may be 
necessary to determine: (i) the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; (ii) whether the Annual 
Update fails to include data properly recorded in accordance with these Protocols; (iii) the proper 
application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these Protocols; (iv) the accuracy of data and 
consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations shown in the Annual Update; (v) the 
prudence of actual costs and expenditures; (vi) the effect of any change to the underlying USofA 
or FERC Form No. 1 Document; or (vii) any other information that may reasonably have 
substantive effect on the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
d. Failure to raise an issue in a Preliminary Challenge shall not bar an Interested 
Party from raising that issue in a Formal Challenge, provided the Interested Party submitted a 
Preliminary Challenge during the Review Period with respect to one or more other issues.  
Failure to pursue an issue through a Preliminary Challenge or to lodge a Formal Challenge 
regarding any issue as to a given Annual Update shall bar pursuit of such issue with respect to 
that Annual Update, but shall not bar pursuit of such issue or the lodging of a Formal Challenge 
as to such issue as it relates to a subsequent Annual Update. 
e. Any response by AMPT to a Formal Challenge must be submitted to the FERC 
within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the filing of the Formal Challenge (or such later 
date as FERC may establish), and shall be served on the filing party(ies) and the PJM Exploder 
List on the date of such filing. 
f. In any Formal Challenge proceeding concerning an Annual Update (including 
corrections), or Accounting Change(s), AMPT shall demonstrate the justness and reasonableness 
of the rate resulting from its application of the Formula Rate by demonstrating that it has 
correctly applied the terms of the Formula Rate consistent with these Protocols and that it 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32B - AMPT Formula Rate Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-263-002 - Page 35 
followed the applicable requirements and procedures in applying the Formula Rate.  Nothing 
herein is intended to alter the burdens applied by FERC with respect to prudence challenges. 
g. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in 
any way the right of AMPT to file unilaterally, pursuant to the FPA and the regulations 
thereunder, an application seeking changes to the Formula Rate or to any of the stated value 
inputs requiring a prior filing under these Protocols (including, but not limited to, the Margin 
Factor, and the scope of and amortization period for any deferred costs), or the right of any other 
party or the Commission to seek such changes pursuant to the FPA and the regulations 
thereunder. 
Section 6. Changes to Annual Updates  
If AMPT determines or concedes that corrections to the Annual Update are required, 
whether under Section 4 or 5 of these Protocols, including but not limited to those requiring 
corrections to its FERC Form No. 1 Document, or input data used for a Financial Year that 
would have affected the Annual Update for that Rate Year, such corrections shall be reflected as 
adjustments in the Annual Update for the next Rate Year, with interest calculated in accordance 
with the FERC Interest Rate (as determined pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a). This reconciliation 
mechanism shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW 
SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-32C - AMPT ATR Requirement and Rates 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: Er23-286-000 - Page 1 
