ATTACHMENT C-4 
 
Conversion of Service in the OVEC Zone 
 
The Office of the Interconnection is scheduled to become the Transmission Provider for the 
OVEC Zone under the terms of this Tariff on March 1, 2018 and the OVEC tariff shall be 
superseded with respect to the OVEC Zone.  Except for certain Grandfathered Arrangements, 1 
reservations purchased on the OVEC OASIS nodes prior to the integration of the OVEC Zone 
which remain in place following the integration date shall be converted to the appropriate service 
under this Tariff and subject to the rates, terms and conditions of this Tariff.  In addition, 
requests for interconnection under the OVEC tariff pending prior to the integration of the OVEC 
Zone shall be converted to Interconnection Requests under this Tariff.  This Attachment sets 
forth the principles that shall govern such conversions of service. 
 
Customers who have reservations that need to be converted will be contacted directly by the 
Office of the Interconnection.  Not all transmission service provided under the OVEC tariff 
exactly matches a service under this Tariff.  Differences include variations in product definitions 
and PJM Region locational marginal prices (“LMP”) pricing points.  PJM will convert 
transmission service and requests for service into the defined product types explained below.  
The guidelines for the conversion of service are as follows: 
 
1. Existing reservations will retain the same capacity (in whole megawatts) and will be 
converted to a comparable PJM product and duration with the applicable point of receipt, 
point of delivery and path.  Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service redirected on a 
non-firm basis to Secondary Receipt or Delivery Points under the OVEC tariff prior to 
the OVEC integration date will be converted to service under this Tariff on the basis of 
the original firm points of receipt and delivery.  Firm Point-to-Point Transmission 
Service redirected on a firm basis under Tariff, Part II, section 22.2 (Modification on a 
Firm Basis) (or equivalent) of the OVEC tariff prior to the OVEC integration date will be 
converted to service under this Tariff on the basis of the modified firm points of receipt 
and delivery. 
 
2. OVEC reservations extending past the integration date must: (1) select Source and Sink 
LMP pricing points corresponding to the appropriate interface, where applicable; and (2) 
willing to pay through (or not).  Willing to pay congestion (or not) must be determined no 
later than 12:00 noon EPT, 30 days prior to the OVEC integration start date.  In the event 
the customer does not choose within the allotted deadline above, PJM will convert the 
service to the most closely analogous service under the PJM Tariff, in PJM’s judgment. 
 
1  Under the Inter-Company Power Agreement dated July 10, 1953 and as subsequently amended 
(“ICPA”), OVEC has reservations to export power and energy to the LG&E-KU control area boundary 
equal to 9.63% of output from the Kyger Creek and Clifty Creek generating facilities, representing the 
share held under the ICPA by Sponsoring Companies that do not currently participate in the PJM market 
as members (namely, LG&E/KU and SIGECO).  The maximum delivery amount under the ICPA to these 
non-PJM Sponsoring Companies is 222 MW, exclusive of losses.  As pre-Order No. 888 service, these 
deliveries will be maintained as “Grandfathered Arrangements.”   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C-4 - Conversion of Service in the OVEC Zone 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
Willing to pay congestion is optional for non-firm and non-designated transmission 
service; Firm service, by definition, is willing to pay congestion.  All converted service 
(as they exist) will be placed on the PJM OASIS no later than 30 days prior to the OVEC 
integration start date. 
 
3. PJM will, in collaboration with OVEC, convert OVEC import reservations to one of the 
following service types as defined by this Tariff or on the PJM OASIS.  Spot market, 
Non-Firm Point-to-Point, Network Designated or Network Non-Designated.  This choice 
will be made on an individual reservation basis, based on the scheduling intent of the 
reservation. 
 
Transmission service reservations with an export from the OVEC Zone will be 
represented with new PJM reservations with one of the following service types as defined 
by this Tariff or on the PJM OASIS: Non-Firm Point-to-Point, or Firm Point-to-Point.  
This choice will be made on an individual reservation basis, based on the scheduling 
intent of the reservation. 
 
4. Existing OVEC Zone extended transmission requests (i.e. monthly, weekly, daily) that 
span multiple months will be converted to their largest individual components as defined 
on the PJM OASIS.  For example, a monthly request from October 1 to December 1 will 
be converted to two individual monthly requests, October 1 to November 1, and 
November 1 to December 1; and daily request from January 1 of one year to January 1 of 
the next year will be converted to yearly service. 
 
5. Sliding monthly service (i.e., monthly service that does not run from the first day of the 
given month to the last day of the given month) will be converted to weekly and daily 
service. 
 
6. Sliding weekly service (i.e., weekly service that does not run from Monday at 00:00 to 
Sunday at 23:59) will be converted to daily service. 
 
7. Transmission service that is not currently confirmed on the OVEC OASIS nodes and is in 
active status such as “Received,” “Queued” or “Study” will be transferred to the 
integrated PJM OASIS node and will maintain its initial queued date. 
 
8. “Grandfathered” reservations that exist on the OVEC OASIS nodes will require a 
reservation on the PJM OASIS node.  OVEC or the transmission customer must provide 
PJM with a copy of the grandfathered agreement.  Absent the grandfathered agreement, 
PJM will convert grandfathered service to service under the Tariff and a new service 
agreement will be required per the terms of the Tariff.  With respect to the Grandfathered 
Arrangements, these reservations will not be converted to service under the PJM Tariff, 
and throughout the term of the ICPA, PJM will not assess any charge for these 
grandfathered transmission deliveries under the ICPA from the OVEC Zone to the 
LG&E/KU boundary, including any rates or charges that are otherwise assessed to 
transmission service reservations and scheduled export transaction from PJM pursuant to 
the PJM Tariff, including, but not limited to Ancillary Service charges, Regional 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C-4 - Conversion of Service in the OVEC Zone 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 3 
Transmission Expansion Plan (“RTEP”), LMP, congestion, and other administrative 
costs.   
 
9. The customer for each converted transmission service reservation and request must 
secure a transmission service agreement with PJM per the terms of the Tariff. 
 
10. To facilitate the OASIS transition, from one month prior to the respective integration start 
date until such integration start date, requests for service that are active on or after such 
date one month prior to the integration start date should be made on both the pre-
integration transmission owner or OASIS nodes and the PJM OASIS nodes. 
 
11. Reservations will be converted based on the priority of the product. 
 
12. Although the Office of the Interconnection will attempt to convert existing transmission 
reservations into comparable reservations on the PJM OASIS, there will be unique 
instances where this will not be possible (e.g., reliability issues, etc.).  In this case, 
reservations will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  Transmission service that is not 
currently accepted on the OVEC Zone OASIS nodes and is in active state such as 
“Received,” “Queued” or “Study” will be assigned the same status and queue position on 
the PJM OASIS as it had on the OVEC OASIS prior to conversion. 
 
13. A list of converted Point-to-Point and Network transmission service reservations that 
extend beyond or begin after the integration commencement date will be posted to the 
PJM OASIS web page on an as-needed basis.  The list will identify the original OVEC 
Zone reservation and the new PJM OASIS reservation. 
 
14. An Interconnection Request pending under the OVEC tariff at the time of the integration 
of the OVEC Zone shall be assigned the same priority date under this Tariff as such 
request had under the OVEC tariff immediately prior to such integration. The 
Interconnection Request will be assigned a PJM queue identifier such that the 
Interconnection Customer’s priority date relative to existing PJM queued Interconnection 
Requests can be easily determined.  All such Interconnection Requests will be integrated 
into PJM’s existing Interconnection Queue(s), effective on the OVEC integration start 
date, and will be subject to the generation interconnection procedures under Tariff, Part 
IV and Tariff, Part VI.  On the OVEC integration date, PJM will assume the technical 
studies that have been started under the OVEC tariff.  After the studies are complete, the 
Interconnection Customer will be required to pay for any Network Upgrades and/or Local 
Upgrades that are needed for the generating unit to qualify for Capacity Interconnection 
Rights under this Tariff. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT D 
Effective Date: 7/18/2012 - Docket #: ER12-1784-000 - Page 1 
