[ATTACHMENT K - Part 4 of 12]

Reserve offer which specifies the MW of available Secondary Reserve capability 
in order to remain compliant with such requirements. 
 
(2) (A) An on-line generation resource’s available Secondary 
Reserve capability, except for generation resources capable of 
synchronous condensing, shall be based on the resource’s current 
performance and initial energy output, the resource’s available 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 15 
Synchronized Reserve capability; and the following offer parameters 
submitted as part of the energy offer:  (i) ramp rate; (ii) Economic 
Minimum; and (iii) the lesser of Economic Maximum and Secondary 
Reserve maximum MW, where a resource’s Secondary Reserve maximum 
MW may be less than the Economic Maximum only where the Market 
Seller has, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the PJM 
Manuals, submitted justification to the Office of the Interconnection that 
the resource has an operating configuration that prevents it from reliably 
providing Secondary Reserves above its Secondary Reserve maximum 
MW. 
 
(B) For generation resources capable of synchronous 
condensing, the resource’s available Secondary Reserve capability shall 
be based on the following offer parameters submitted as part of the energy 
offer:  (i) ramp rate; (ii) condense to generation time constraints; (iii) 
Economic Minimum; and (iv) the lesser of Economic Maximum and 
Secondary Reserve maximum MW, where a resource’s Secondary Reserve 
maximum MW may be less than the Economic Maximum only where the 
Market Seller has, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the PJM 
Manuals, submitted justification to the Office of the Interconnection that 
the resource has an operating configuration that prevents it from reliably 
providing Secondary Reserves above its Secondary Reserve maximum 
MW. 
 
(C) An off-line generation resource’s available Secondary 
Reserve capability, shall be based on the resource’s available Secondary 
Reserve capability and the following offer parameters submitted as part of 
the resource’s energy offer:  (i) startup time; (ii) notification time; (iii) 
ramp rate; (iv) Economic Minimum; and (v) the lesser of Economic 
Maximum and Secondary Reserve maximum MW, where a resource’s 
Secondary Reserve maximum MW may be less than the Economic 
Maximum only where the Market Seller has, in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the PJM Manuals, submitted justification to the 
Office of the Interconnection that the resource has an operating 
configuration that prevents it from reliably providing Secondary Reserves 
above its Secondary Reserve maximum MW.  
 
(3) Any Market Seller that believes its generating unit has 
operating modes, limits, or conditions where the unit would not be 
capable of providing Secondary Reserves in real time, can submit to the 
Office of the Interconnection with a copy to the Market Monitoring Unit a 
request for an exception from being assigned Secondary Reserves in the 
Real-time Secondary Reserve Market during time periods in which the 
generating unit is in those operating modes, limits, or conditions.  As part 
of the request, the Market Seller shall supply, for each generating unit, 
technical information about the operational modes, limits, or conditions to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 16 
support the requested exception, as further detailed in the PJM Manuals.  
The Office of the Interconnection shall consult with the Market Monitoring 
Unit, and consider any input received from the Market Monitoring Unit, in 
its determination of a request for such an exception.  Within 60 days of the 
submission of the request, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify the 
Market Seller in writing, with a copy to the Market Monitoring Unit, 
whether the request is approved or denied.  The effective date of any 
approved request will be provided in the written notification.  If a Market 
Seller has an approved exception, the Market Seller must communicate to 
the Office of the Interconnection when the unit cannot provides reserves, 
and the Office of the Interconnection will provide a mechanism for Market 
Sellers with an approved exception to provide such communication to the 
Office of the Interconnection in real time, as further detailed in the PJM 
Manuals.  An approved exception will remain applicable to the unit until 
such time as the Office of the Interconnection determines that a change is 
needed or the Market Seller notifies the Office of the Interconnection, with 
a copy to the Market Monitoring Unit, that a change is needed based on 
changed operational capabilities of the unit.  Market Sellers must notify 
the Office of the Interconnection, with a copy to the Market Monitoring 
Unit, within 30 days of any changed operational capabilities that 
necessitate a change in an approved exception. 
 
(iii) Offers to Supply Secondary Reserves by Economic Load Response 
Participant resources 
 
(1) Each Economic Load Response Participant that submits offers to 
reduce demand into the Day-ahead Energy Market and Real-time Energy Market 
and wishes to make their resources available to supply Secondary Reserve shall 
submit offers to supply Secondary Reserve from such resources, where such offers 
shall specify the megawatts of Secondary Reserve being offered, which must equal 
or exceed 0.1 megawatts and include such other information specified by the 
Office of the Interconnection as may be necessary to evaluate the offer.  Such 
offers may vary hourly, and may be updated each hour up to 65 minutes before 
the applicable clock hour during the Operating Day. 
 
(2) All Secondary Reserve offers by Economic Load Response 
Participant resources shall be for $0.00/MWh.  Offers shall be submitted to the 
Office of the Interconnection in the form specified by the Office of the 
Interconnection and shall contain the information specified in the Office of the 
Interconnection’s Offer Data specification, this section 1.10.1A(d), section 
1.10.9B below, and the PJM Manuals, as applicable. 
 
 (n) A Market Participant may submit a Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transaction for a 
Market Participant’s generator within the PJM balancing authority area that is a Pseudo-Tie into 
the MISO balancing authority area.  Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transactions combine an offer to 
sell energy at a source with a bid to buy the same megawatt quantity of energy at a sink where 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 17 
such transaction specifies the maximum difference between the Locational Marginal Prices at the 
source and sink. 
 
Each Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transaction shall: (1) source at a Market Participant’s generator 
within the PJM balancing authority area that Pseudo-Ties into MISO; and (2) sink at the PJM-
MISO interface.  A Market Participant must reserve transmission service in accordance with the 
PJM Tariff for each Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transaction.  Megawatt quantities for Day-Ahead 
Pseudo-Tie Transactions shall be greater than zero and less than or equal to the transmission 
service reserved for the Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transaction.  An accepted Day-Ahead Pseudo-
Tie Transaction results in scheduled injection at a specified source and scheduled withdrawal of 
the same megawatt quantity at a specified sink in the Day-Ahead Energy Market. 
 
1.10.1B Demand Bid Scheduling and Screening 
 
(a) The Office of the Interconnection shall apply Demand Bid Screening to all Demand 
Bids submitted in the Day-ahead Energy Market for each Load Serving Entity, separately by Zone.  
Using Demand Bid Screening, the Office of the Interconnection will automatically reject a Load 
Serving Entity’s Demand Bids in any future Operating Day for which the Load Serving Entity 
submits bids if the total megawatt volume of such bids would exceed the Load Serving Entity’s 
Demand Bid Limit for any hour in such Operating Day, unless the Office of the Interconnection 
permits an exception pursuant to subsection (d) below. 
   
(b) On a daily basis, PJM will update and post each Load Serving Entity’s Demand Bid 
Limit in each applicable Zone.  Such Demand Bid Limit will apply to all Demand Bids submitted 
by that Load Serving Entity for each future Operating Day for which it submits bids.  The Demand 
Bid Limit is calculated using the following equation:    
 
Demand Bid Limit = greater of (Zonal Peak Demand Reference Point * 1.3), or (Zonal Peak 
Demand Reference Point + 10MW) 
 
Where: 
1.  Zonal Peak Demand Reference Point = for each Zone: the product of (a) LSE Recent 
Load Share, multiplied by (b) Peak Daily Load Forecast. 
2.  LSE Recent Load Share is the Load Serving Entity’s highest share of Network Load 
in each Zone for any hour over the most recently available seven Operating Days for 
which PJM has data.   
3.  Peak Daily Load Forecast is PJM’s highest available peak load forecast for each 
applicable Zone that is calculated on a daily basis. 
 
(c)  A Load Serving Entity whose Demand Bids are rejected as a result of Demand Bid 
Screening may change its Demand Bids to reduce its total megawatt volume to a level that does 
not exceed its Demand Bid Limit, and may resubmit them subject to the applicable rules related to 
bid submission outlined in Tariff, Operating Agreement and PJM Manuals.   
 
(d) PJM may allow a Load Serving Entity to submit bids in excess of its Demand Bid 
Limit when circumstances exist that will cause, or are reasonably expected to cause, a Load 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 18 
Serving Entity’s actual load to exceed its Demand Bid Limit on a given Operating Day. 
Examples of such circumstances include, but are not limited to, changes in load commitments 
due to state sponsored auctions, mergers and acquisitions between PJM Members, and sales and 
divestitures between PJM Members.  A Load Serving Entity may submit a written exception 
request to the Office of Interconnection for a higher Demand Bid Limit for an affected Operating 
Day.  Such request must include a detailed explanation of the circumstances at issue and 
supporting documentation that justify the Load Serving Entity’s expectation that its actual load 
will exceed its Demand Bid Limit. 
 
1.10.2 Pool-scheduled Resources.  
 
Pool-scheduled resources are those resources for which Market Participants submitted offers to 
sell energy in the Day-ahead Energy Market and offers to reduce demand in the Day-ahead 
Energy Market, which the Office of the Interconnection scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market as well as generators committed by the Office of the Interconnection subsequent to the 
Day-ahead Energy Market.  Such resources shall be committed to provide energy in the real-time 
dispatch unless the schedules for such units are revised pursuant to section 1.10.9 below or 
Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.11.  Pool-scheduled resources shall be governed by the 
following principles and procedures. 
 
  (a) Pool-scheduled resources shall be selected by the Office of the Interconnection on 
the basis of the prices offered for energy and demand reductions and related services, whether 
the resource is expected to be needed to maintain system reliability during the Operating Day, 
Start-up Costs, No-load Costs and cancellation fees, and the specified operating characteristics, 
offered by Market Sellers to the Office of the Interconnection by the offer deadline specified in 
section 1.10.1A above.  Hydropower units can only be pool-scheduled if they are pumped 
storage units and scheduled by the Office of the Interconnection pursuant to the hydro 
optimization tool in the Day-ahead Energy Market. 
 
 
  (b) A resource that is scheduled by a Market Participant to support a bilateral sale, or 
that is self-scheduled by a Generating Market Buyer, shall not be selected by the Office of the 
Interconnection as a pool-scheduled resource except in an Emergency. 
 
  (c) Market Sellers offering energy from hydropower or other facilities with fuel or 
environmental limitations may submit data to the Office of the Interconnection that is sufficient 
to enable the Office of the Interconnection to determine the available operating hours of such 
facilities. 
 
  (d) The Market Seller of a resource selected as a pool-scheduled resource shall 
receive payments or credits for energy, demand reductions or related services, or for Start-up 
Costs and No-load Costs, from the Office of the Interconnection on behalf of the Market Buyers 
in accordance with Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.  Alternatively, the Market Seller 
shall receive, in lieu of Start-up Costs and No-load Costs, its actual costs incurred, if any, up to a 
cap of the resource’s Start-up Costs, if the Office of the Interconnection cancels its selection of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 19 
the resource as a pool-scheduled resource and so notifies the Market Seller before the resource is 
synchronized. 
 
  (e) Market Participants shall make available their pool-scheduled resources to the 
Office of the Interconnection for coordinated operation to supply the Operating Reserves needs 
of the applicable Control Zone. 
 
  (f) Economic Load Response Participants offering to reduce demand shall specify: (i) 
the amount of the offered curtailment, which must equal or exceed 0.1 megawatts, in minimum 
increments of 0.1 megawatts; (ii) the real-time Locational Marginal Price above which the end-
use customer will reduce load; and (iii) at the Economic Load Response Participant’s option, 
shut-down costs associated with reducing load, including direct labor and equipment costs, 
opportunity costs, and/or a minimum number of contiguous hours for which the load reduction 
must be committed.  Economic Load Response Participants submitting offers to reduce demand 
in the Day-ahead Energy Market and/or the Real-time Energy Market may establish an 
incremental offer curve, provided that such offer curve shall be limited to ten price pairs (in 
MWs).  Economic Load Response Participants offering to reduce demand shall also indicate the 
hours that the demand reduction is not available. 
 
1.10.3 Self-scheduled Resources. 
 
Self-scheduled resources shall be governed by the following principles and procedures. 
 
  (a) Each Generating Market Buyer shall use all reasonable efforts, consistent with 
Good Utility Practice, not to self-schedule resources in excess of its Equivalent Load. 
 
  (b) The offered prices of resources that are self-scheduled and not dispatchable by the 
Office of the Interconnection shall not be considered by the Office of the Interconnection in 
determining Locational Marginal Prices. 
 
  (c) Market Participants shall make available their self-scheduled resources to the 
Office of the Interconnection for coordinated operation to supply the Operating Reserves needs 
of the applicable Control Zone, by submitting an offer as to such resources. 
 
  (d) A Market Participant self-scheduling a resource in the Day-ahead Energy Market 
that does not deliver the energy in the Real-time Energy Market, shall replace the energy not 
delivered with energy from the Real-time Energy Market and shall pay for such energy at the 
applicable Real-time Price. 
 
 (e) A Market Participant self-scheduling a resource to supply Synchronized Reserve 
in the Day-ahead Synchronized Reserve Market that does not deliver the scheduled megawatt 
quantity in the applicable real-time reserve market, shall replace the Synchronized Reserve not 
delivered and shall pay for such Synchronized Reserve at the applicable Real-time Synchronized 
Reserve Market Clearing Price.  Market Participants shall not self-schedule a resource to 
provide Secondary Reserve or Non-Synchronized Reserve. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 20 
(f) For energy, hydropower units, excluding pumped storage units, may only be self-
scheduled. 
 
(g) A resource that has been self-scheduled shall not receive payments or credits for 
Start-up Costs or No-load Costs. 
 
1.10.4 Capacity Resources. 
 
  (a) A Generation Capacity Resource committed to service of PJM loads under the 
Reliability Pricing Model or Fixed Resource Requirement Alternative that is selected as a pool-
scheduled resource shall be made available for scheduling and dispatch at the direction of the 
Office of the Interconnection.  Such a Generation Capacity Resource that does not deliver energy 
as scheduled shall be deemed to have experienced a Generator Forced Outage to the extent of 
such energy not delivered.  A Market Participant offering such Generation Capacity Resource in 
the Day-ahead Energy Market shall replace the energy not delivered with energy from the Real-
time Energy Market and shall pay for such energy at the applicable Real-time Price. 
 
  (b) Energy from a Generation Capacity Resource committed to service of PJM loads 
under the Reliability Pricing Model or Fixed Resource Requirement Alternative that has not been 
scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy Market may be sold on a bilateral basis by the Market Seller, 
may be self-scheduled, or may be offered for dispatch during the Operating Day in accordance 
with the procedures specified in this Schedule.  Such a Generation Capacity Resource that has 
not been scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy Market and that has been sold on a bilateral basis 
must be made available upon request to the Office of the Interconnection for scheduling and 
dispatch during the Operating Day if the Office of the Interconnection declares a Maximum 
Generation Emergency.  Any such resource so scheduled and dispatched shall receive the 
applicable Real-time Price for energy delivered.  
 
1.10.5 External Resources.   
 
  (a) External Resources may submit offers to the PJM Interchange Energy Market, in 
accordance with the day-ahead and real-time scheduling processes specified above.  An External 
Resource selected as a pool-scheduled resource shall be made available for scheduling and 
dispatch at the direction of the Office of the Interconnection, and except as specified below shall 
be compensated on the same basis as other pool-scheduled resources.  External Resources that 
are not capable of Dynamic Transfer shall, if selected by the Office of the Interconnection on the 
basis of the Market Seller’s Offer Data, be block loaded on an hourly scheduled basis.  Market 
Sellers shall offer External Resources to the PJM Interchange Energy Market on either a 
resource-specific or an aggregated resource basis.  A Market Participant whose pool-scheduled 
resource does not deliver the energy scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy Market shall replace 
such energy not delivered as scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy Market with energy from the 
PJM Real-time Energy Market and shall pay for such energy at the applicable Real-time Price. 
 
  (b) Offers for External Resources from an aggregation of two or more generating 
units shall so indicate, and shall specify, in accordance with the Offer Data requirements 
specified by the Office of the Interconnection:  (i) energy prices; (ii) hours of energy availability; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 21 
(iii) a minimum dispatch level; (iv) a maximum dispatch level; and (v) unless such information 
has previously been made available to the Office of the Interconnection, sufficient information, 
as specified in the PJM Manuals, to enable the Office of the Interconnection to model the flow 
into the PJM Region of any energy from the External Resources scheduled in accordance with 
the Offer Data.   
 
  (c) Offers for External Resources on a resource-specific basis shall specify the 
resource being offered, along with the information specified in the Offer Data as applicable. 
 
1.10.6 External Market Buyers. 
 
  (a) Deliveries to an External Market Buyer not subject to Dynamic Transfer by the 
Office of the Interconnection shall be delivered on a block loaded basis to the bus or buses at the 
electrical boundaries of the PJM Region, or in such area with respect to an External Market 
Buyer’s load within such area not served by Network Service, at which the energy is delivered to 
or for the External Market Buyer.  External Market Buyers shall be charged (which charge may 
be positive or negative) at either the Day-ahead Prices or Real-time Prices, whichever is 
applicable, for energy at the foregoing bus or buses. 
 
  (b) An External Market Buyer’s hourly schedules for energy purchased from the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market shall conform to the ramping and other applicable requirements of 
the interconnection agreement between the PJM Region and the Control Area to which, whether 
as an intermediate or final point of delivery, the purchased energy will initially be delivered. 
 
  (c) The Office of the Interconnection shall curtail deliveries to an External Market 
Buyer if necessary to maintain appropriate reserve levels for a Control Zone as defined in the 
PJM Manuals, or to avoid shedding load in such Control Zone. 
 
1.10.7 Bilateral Transactions.   
 
Bilateral transactions as to which the parties have notified the Office of the Interconnection by 
the deadline specified in section 1.10.1A above that they elect not to be included in the Day-
ahead Energy Market and that they are not willing to incur Transmission Congestion Charges in 
the Real-time Energy Market shall be curtailed by the Office of the Interconnection as necessary 
to reduce or alleviate transmission congestion.  Bilateral transactions that were not included in 
the Day-ahead Energy Market and that are willing to incur congestion charges and bilateral 
transactions that were accepted in the Day-ahead Energy Market shall continue to be 
implemented during periods of congestion, except as may be necessary to respond to 
Emergencies. 
 
1.10.8 Office of the Interconnection Responsibilities. 
 
  (a) The Office of the Interconnection shall use its best efforts to determine (i) the 
least-cost means of satisfying the projected hourly requirements for energy, Operating Reserves, 
and other ancillary services of the Market Buyers, including the reliability requirements of the 
PJM Region, of the Day-ahead Energy Market, and (ii) the least-cost means of satisfying the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 22 
Operating Reserve and other ancillary service requirements for any portion of the load forecast 
of the Office of the Interconnection for the Operating Day in excess of that scheduled in the Day-
ahead Energy Market.  In making these determinations, the Office of the Interconnection shall 
take into account:  (i) the Office of the Interconnection’s forecasts of PJM Interchange Energy 
Market and PJM Region energy requirements, giving due consideration to the energy 
requirement forecasts and purchase requests submitted by Market Buyers and PRD Curves 
properly submitted by PRD Providers; (ii) the offers submitted by Market Sellers; (iii) the 
availability of limited energy resources; (iv) the capacity, location, and other relevant 
characteristics of self-scheduled resources; (v) the objectives of each Control Zone for Operating 
Reserves, as specified in the PJM Manuals; (vi) the requirements of each Regulation Zone for 
Regulation and other ancillary services, as specified in the PJM Manuals; (vii) the benefits of 
avoiding or minimizing transmission constraint control operations, as specified in the PJM 
Manuals; (viii) Ambient-Adjusted Ratings for Transmission Facilities; and (ix) such other factors 
as the Office of the Interconnection reasonably concludes are relevant to the foregoing 
determination, including, without limitation, transmission constraints on external coordinated 
flowgates to the extent provided by Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.7.6.  The Office of 
the Interconnection shall develop a Day-ahead Energy Market utilizing security constrained unit 
commitment and security constrained economic dispatch software based on the foregoing 
determination, and shall determine the Day-ahead Prices resulting from such schedule.  The 
Office of the Interconnection shall report the planned schedule for a hydropower resource to the 
operator of that resource as necessary for plant safety and security, and legal limitations on pond 
elevations. 
 
  (b) By 1:30 p.m., or as soon as practicable thereafter, of the day before each 
Operating Day, or such other  deadline as may be specified by the Office of the Interconnection 
in the PJM Manuals, the Office of the Interconnection shall:  (i) post the aggregate Day-ahead 
Energy Market results; (ii) post the Day-ahead Prices; and (iii) inform the Market Sellers, Market 
Buyers, and Economic Load Response Participants of their scheduled injections, withdrawals, 
and demand reductions respectively.  The foregoing notwithstanding, the deadlines set forth in 
this subsection shall not apply if the Office of the Interconnection is unable to obtain Market 
Participant bid/offer data due to extraordinary circumstances.  For purposes of this subsection, 
extraordinary circumstances shall mean a technical malfunction that limits, prohibits or 
otherwise interferes with the ability of the Office of the Interconnection to obtain Market 
Participant bid/offer data prior to 11:59 p.m. on the day before the affected Operating Day.  
Extraordinary circumstances do not include a Market Participant’s inability to submit bid/offer 
data to the Office of the Interconnection.  If the Office of the Interconnection is unable to clear 
the Day-ahead Energy Market prior to 11:59 p.m. on the day before the affected Operating Day 
as a result of such extraordinary circumstances, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify 
Members as soon as practicable.  
 
  (c) Following posting of the information specified in section 1.10.8(b), and absent 
extraordinary circumstances preventing the clearing of the Day-ahead Energy Market, the Office 
of the Interconnection shall revise its schedule of generation resources to reflect updated 
projections of load, conditions affecting electric system operations in the PJM Region, the 
availability of and constraints on limited energy and other resources, transmission constraints, 
and other relevant factors.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 23 
 
  (d) Market Buyers shall pay PJMSettlement and Market Sellers shall be paid by 
PJMSettlement for the quantities of energy scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy Market at the 
Day-ahead Prices when the Day-ahead Price is positive.  Market Buyers shall be paid by 
PJMSettlement and Market Sellers shall pay PJMSettlement for the quantities of energy 
scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy Market at the Day-ahead Prices when the Day-ahead Price is 
negative.  Economic Load Response Participants shall be paid for scheduled demand reductions 
pursuant to Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.3A.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the 
Office of the Interconnection is unable to clear the Day-ahead Energy Market prior to 11:59 p.m. 
on the day before the affected Operating Day due to extraordinary circumstances as described in 
subsection (b) above, no settlements shall be made for the Day-ahead Energy Market, no 
scheduled megawatt quantities shall be established, and no Day-ahead Prices shall be established 
for that Operating Day.  Rather, for purposes of settlements for such Operating Day, the Office 
of the Interconnection shall utilize a scheduled megawatt quantity and price of zero and all 
settlements, including Financial Transmission Right Target Allocations, will be based on the 
real-time quantities and prices as determined pursuant to Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
2.4 and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2.5. 
 
 (e) If the Office of the Interconnection discovers a potential error in prices and/or 
cleared quantities in the Day-ahead Energy Market or Day-ahead Ancillary Services Markets, or 
the Real-time Energy Market or Real-time Ancillary Services Markets after it has posted the 
results for these markets on its Web site, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify Market 
Participants as soon as possible after it is found, but in no event later than 12:00 p.m. of the 
second Business Day following the Operating Day for the Real-time Energy Market and Real-
time Ancillary Services Markets, and no later than 5:00 p.m. of the second Business Day 
following the initial publication of the results for the Day-ahead Energy Market and Day-ahead 
Ancillary Services Markets.  After this initial notification, if the Office of the Interconnection 
determines it is necessary to post modified results, it shall provide notification of its intent to do 
so, along with a description detailing the cause and scope of the error, by no later than 5:00 p.m. 
of the fifth Business Day following the Operating Day for the Real-time Energy Market and 
Real-time Ancillary Services Markets, and no later than 5:00 p.m. of the fifth Business Day 
following the initial publication of the results in the Day-ahead Energy Market and Day-ahead 
Ancillary Services Markets.  The provided description will not contain information that is market 
sensitive or confidential.  Thereafter, the Office of the Interconnection must post on its Web site 
the corrected results by no later than 5:00 p.m. of the tenth calendar day following the Operating 
Day for the Day-ahead Energy Market, Real-time Energy Market, and Day-ahead Ancillary 
Services Markets, and Real-time Ancillary Service Markets. Should any of the above deadlines 
pass without the associated action on the part of the Office of the Interconnection, the originally 
posted results will be considered final. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the deadlines set forth 
above shall not apply if the referenced market results are under publicly noticed review by the 
FERC. 
 
 (f) Consistent with Operating Agreement, section 18.17.1, and notwithstanding 
anything to the contrary in the Operating Agreement or in the PJM Tariff, to allow the tracking 
of Market Participants’ non-aggregated bids and offers over time as required by FERC Order No. 
719, the Office of the Interconnection shall post on its Web site the non-aggregated bid data and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 24 
Offer Data submitted by Market Participants (for participation in the PJM Interchange Energy 
Market) approximately four months after the bid or offer was submitted to the Office of the 
Interconnection.   
 
1.10.9 Hourly Scheduling. 
 
  (a) Following the initial posting by the Office of the Interconnection of the 
Locational Marginal Prices resulting from the Day-ahead Energy Market, and subject to the right 
of the Office of the Interconnection to schedule and dispatch pool-scheduled resources and to 
direct that schedules be changed in an Emergency, and absent extraordinary circumstances 
preventing the clearing of the Day-ahead Energy Market, a generation rebidding period shall 
exist.  Typically the rebidding period shall be from the time the Office of the Interconnection 
posts the results of the Day-ahead Energy Market until 2:15 p.m. on the day before each 
Operating Day.  However, should the clearing of the Day-ahead Energy Market be significantly 
delayed, the Office of the Interconnection may establish a revised rebidding period.  During the 
rebidding period, Market Participants may submit revisions to generation Offer Data for the next 
Operating Day.  Adjustments to the Day-ahead Energy Market shall be settled at the applicable 
Real-time Prices, and shall not affect the obligation to pay or receive payment for the quantities 
of energy scheduled in the Day-ahead Energy Market at the applicable Day-ahead Prices. 
 
  (b) A Market Participant may adjust the schedule of a resource under its dispatch 
control on an hour-to-hour basis beginning at 6:30 p.m. of the day before each Operating Day, 
provided that the Office of the Interconnection is notified not later than 65 minutes prior to the 
hour in which the adjustment is to take effect, as follows and as specified in section 1.10.9A 
below: 
 
i) A Generating Market Buyer may self-schedule any of its resource 
increments, including hydropower resources, not previously designated as self-scheduled 
and not selected as a pool-scheduled resource in the Day-ahead Energy Market; 
 
ii) A Market Participant may request the scheduling of a non-firm bilateral 
transaction; or 
 
iii) A Market Participant may request the scheduling of deliveries or receipts 
of Spot Market Energy; or 
 
iv) A Generating Market Buyer may remove from service a resource 
increment, including a hydropower resource, that it had previously designated as self-
scheduled, provided that the Office of the Interconnection shall have the option to 
schedule energy from any such resource increment that is a Capacity Resource at the 
price offered in the scheduling process, with no obligation to pay any Start-Up Costs. 
 
  (c) An External Market Buyer may refuse delivery of some or all of the energy it 
requested to purchase in the Day-ahead Energy Market by notifying the Office of the 
Interconnection of the adjustment in deliveries not later than 65 minutes prior to the hour in 
which the adjustment is to take effect, but any such adjustment shall not affect the obligation of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 25 
the External Market Buyer to pay for energy scheduled on its behalf in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market at the applicable Day-ahead Prices. 
 
  (d) The Office of the Interconnection shall provide External Market Buyers and 
External Market Sellers and parties to bilateral transactions with any revisions to their schedules 
resulting from the rebidding period by 6:30 p.m. on the day before each Operating Day.  The 
Office of the Interconnection may also commit additional resources after such time as system 
conditions require.  For each hour in the Operating Day, as soon as practicable after the deadlines 
specified in the foregoing subsection of this section 1.10, the Office of the Interconnection shall 
provide External Market Buyers and External Market Sellers and parties to bilateral transactions 
with any revisions to their schedules for the hour. 
 
1.10.9A  Updating Offers in Real-time 
 
(a) Each Market Seller may submit Real-time Offers for a resource up to 65 minutes before 
the applicable clock hour, and such Real-time Offers shall supersede any previous offer for that 
resource for the clock hour, as further described in the PJM Manuals and subject to the following 
conditions: 
 
(i) A market-based Real-time Offer shall not exceed the applicable energy 
offer caps specified in this Schedule.  Once a Market Seller’s resource is committed for 
an applicable clock hour, the Market Seller may not increase its Incremental Energy 
Offer and may only submit a market-based Real-time Offer that is higher than its market-
based offer that was in effect at the time of commitment to reflect increases in the 
resource’s cost-based Start-up Costs and cost-based No-load Costs.  The Market Seller 
may elect not to have its market-based offer considered for dispatch and to have only its 
lowest cost-based offer considered for the remainder of the Operating Day.    
 
(ii) Cost-based Real-time Offers shall be submitted to the Office of the 
Interconnection in the form specified by the Office of the Interconnection’s Offer Data 
specification, Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, sections 1.10.1A(d) and 1.10.9B, 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 2 and the PJM Manuals, as applicable.  If a Market 
Seller submits a market-based Real-time Offer for a particular clock hour in accordance 
with subsection (c) below, or if updates to a cost-based offer are required by the Market 
Seller’s approved Fuel Cost Policy, the Market Seller shall update its previously 
submitted cost-based Real-time Offer.   
 
(iii) If a Market Seller’s available cost-based offer is not compliant with 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 2 and the PJM Manuals at the time a Market Seller 
submits a market-based Real-time Offer for an applicable clock hour during the 
Operating Day, the Market Seller must submit an updated cost-based Real-time Offer 
consisting of an Incremental Energy Offer, Start-up Cost and No-load Cost for that clock 
hour that is compliant with Operating Agreement, Schedule 2 and the PJM Manuals. 
(b) Each Market Seller may submit Real-time Offers for a resource during and through the 
end of the applicable clock hour to update only the following offer parameters, as further 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.10 - Scheduling 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 26 
described in the PJM Manuals: (1) Economic Minimum; (2) Economic Maximum; (3) 
emergency minimum MW; (4) emergency maximum MW; (5) unit availability status; (6) fixed 
output indicator; (7) Synchronized Reserve maximum MW; and (8) Secondary Reserve maximum 
MW.  Such Real-time Offers shall supersede any previous offer for that resource for the clock 
hour. 
1.10.9B  Offer Parameter Flexibility  
(a)  Market Sellers may, in accordance with sections 1.10.1A and 1.10.9A above, this 
section 1.10.9B, and the PJM Manuals, update offer parameters at any time up to 65 minutes before 
the applicable clock hour, including prior to the close of the Day-ahead Energy Market and prior 
to the close of the rebidding period specified in section 1.10.9, except that Market Sellers may not 
update their offers for the supply of energy, Secondary Reserve, Synchronized Reserve, Non-
Synchronized Reserve, or demand reduction: (1) during the period after the close the Day-ahead 
Energy Market and prior to the posting of the Day-ahead Energy Market results pursuant to section 
1.10.8(b); or (2) during the period after close of the rebidding period and prior to PJM announcing 
the results of the rebidding period pursuant to section 1.10.9(d). 
 
(b) For generation resource offers, Market Sellers may vary for each clock hour during 
the entire Operating Day the following offer parameters:  (1) cost-based Start-up Costs; (2) cost-
based No-load Costs; (3) Incremental Energy Offer; (4) Economic Minimum and Economic 
Maximum; (5) emergency minimum MW and emergency maximum MW; (6) ramp rate; (7) 
Synchronized Reserve maximum MW; (8) Secondary Reserve maximum MW; and (9) for Real-
time Offers only, (i) notification time and (ii) for uncommitted hours only, Minimum Run Time.   
 
(c) For Economic Load Response Participant resource offers, Market Sellers may vary 
for each clock hour during the entire Operating Day the following offer parameters:  (1) shutdown 
costs, (2) Incremental Energy Offer; (3) Economic Minimum; (4) Economic Maximum; and (5) 
for Real-time Offers only, (i) notification time and (ii) for uncommitted hours only, minimum 
down time. 
 
(d)  After the announcement of the results of the rebidding period pursuant to section 
1.10.9(d), a Market Seller may submit a Real-time Offer where offer parameters may differ from 
the offer originally submitted in the Day-ahead Energy Market, except that a Market Seller may 
not submit a Real-time Offer that changes, of the offer parameters listed in section 1.10.1A(d), the 
MW amounts specified in the Incremental Energy Offer, MW amounts specified in the ramp rate, 
maximum run time, and availability; provided, however, Market Sellers of dual-fueled resources 
may submit Real-time Offers for such resources that change the availability of a submitted cost-
based offer. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.11 - Real-time Dispatch 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 1 
1.11 Real-time Dispatch. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall determine the least cost security constrained economic 
dispatch and send dispatch targets for each resource to Market Participants.  The least cost security 
constrained economic dispatch is the least costly means of serving load and meeting reserve 
requirements at different locations in the PJM Region based on forecasted operating conditions on 
the power grid (including transmission constraints on external coordinated flowgates to the extent 
provided by Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.7.6) as described in the PJM Manuals and 
on the offers for energy and ancillary services at which Market Sellers have entered as described 
by Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.10 and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2.4 
and on offers by Economic Load Response Participants to reduce demand that qualify to set 
Locational Marginal Prices in the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
(a) To determine actual operating conditions on the power grid in the PJM Region (including 
transmission constraints on external coordinated flowgates to the extent provided by Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.7.6), the Office of the Interconnection shall use a computer 
model of the interconnected grid that uses available metered inputs regarding generator output, 
loads, and power flows to model remaining flows and conditions, producing a consistent 
representation of power flows on the network as an input into the real-time security constrained 
economic dispatch.  The computer model employed for this purpose, referred to as the State 
Estimator program, is a standard industry tool and is described in section 1.11A below.  The State 
Estimator solution used by the real-time security constrained economic dispatch will be used to 
obtain information regarding the output of generation supplying energy to the PJM Region, loads 
at buses in the PJM Region, transmission losses, and power flows on binding transmission 
constraints. In addition, the Office of the Interconnection shall utilize Ambient-Adjusted Ratings 
for Transmission Facilities as an input into the real-time security constrained economic dispatch. 
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall execute real-time security constrained economic 
dispatch for each five (5) minute target time, unless the Office of the Interconnection is unable to 
generate real-time security constrained economic dispatch solutions due to operational or technical 
issues, including but not limited to those described in the PJM Manuals.  Each execution of the 
real-time security constrained economic dispatch shall result in several solutions, taking into 
consideration different operational scenarios.  
 
(c) The Office of the Interconnection shall approve the applicable real-time security constrained 
economic dispatch solution for each five (5) minute target time, unless the Office of the 
Interconnection is unable to approve a real-time security constrained economic dispatch solution 
for the applicable target time due to a failure of the real-time security constrained economic 
dispatch program or other operational reasons.  In such situations, either the most recently 
approved real-time security constrained economic dispatch solution shall persist, or the Office of 
the Interconnection shall manually dispatch the system. 
 
1.11A Determination of System Conditions Using the State Estimator.   
 
Power system operations, including, but not limited to, the determination of the least costly means 
of serving load and meeting reserve requirements, depend upon the availability of a complete and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.11 - Real-time Dispatch 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 2 
consistent representation of generator outputs, loads, and power flows on the network.  In 
performing the security constrained economic dispatch of the system, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall obtain a complete and consistent description of conditions on the electric 
network in the PJM Region by using the most recent power flow solution produced by the State 
Estimator program.  The State Estimator program is also used by the Office of the Interconnection 
for other functions within power system operations.  The State Estimator is a standard industry 
tool that produces a power flow model based on available real-time metering information, 
information regarding the current status of lines, generators, transformers, and other equipment, 
bus load distribution factors, and a representation of the electric network, to provide a complete 
description of system conditions, including conditions at buses for which real-time information is 
unavailable.  The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain the latest State Estimator solution each 
time a new security constrained economic dispatch is executed, which shall provide the megawatt 
output of generators and the loads at buses in the PJM Region, transmission line losses, and actual 
flows or loadings on transmission facilities as defined in the PJM Manuals. 
 
1.11.1 Resource Output. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall have the authority to direct any Market Seller to adjust the 
output of any pool-scheduled or self-scheduled resource increment within the operating 
characteristics specified in the Market Seller’s offer.  The Office of the Interconnection may cancel 
its selection of, or otherwise release, pool-scheduled resources, subject to an obligation to pay any 
applicable start-up, no-load or cancellation fees.  The Office of the Interconnection shall adjust the 
output of pool-scheduled or self-scheduled resource increments as necessary:  (a) to maintain 
reliability, and subject to that constraint, to minimize the cost of supplying the energy, reserves, 
and other services required by the Market Buyers and the operation of the PJM Region; (b) to 
balance load and generation, maintain scheduled tie flows, and provide frequency support within 
the PJM Region; and (c) to minimize unscheduled interchange not frequency related between the 
PJM Region and other Control Areas. 
 
1.11.2 Operating Basis. 
 
In carrying out the foregoing objectives, the Office of the Interconnection shall conduct the 
operation of the PJM Region in accordance with the PJM Manuals, and shall: (i) utilize available 
generating reserves and obtain required replacements; and (ii) monitor the availability of adequate 
reserves. 
 
1.11.3 Pool-dispatched Resources. 
 
As part of the real-time security constrained economic dispatch calculation, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall use submitted ramp rates to calculate the next dispatch point.   
 
As part of the calculation, the Office of the Interconnection shall estimate the initial state of each 
generation resource based on its previous dispatch signal and the most recent State Estimator 
output.  In the event the Office of the Interconnection is unable to approve a real-time security 
constrained economic dispatch solution for a period of time, due to a failure of the real-time 
security constrained economic dispatch program or other operational reasons, the most recent State 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.11 - Real-time Dispatch 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 3 
Estimator shall be used as the initial state.  This evaluation methodology is calculated for all online 
dispatchable resources for each market solution in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
 (a) The Office of the Interconnection shall implement the dispatch of energy from 
pool-scheduled resources with limited energy by direct request, by following the Day-ahead 
Market clearing, or by following the direct request of the Market Seller, subject to the Office of 
the Interconnection’s determination of actions necessary to maintain reliability.   
 
 (b) The Office of the Interconnection shall implement the dispatch of energy from other 
pool-dispatched resource increments, including generation increments from Capacity Resources 
the remaining increments of which are self-scheduled, by sending appropriate signals and 
instructions to the entity controlling such resources, in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  Each 
Market Seller shall ensure that the pool-dispatched resource offered or made available by that 
Market Seller complies with the energy dispatch signals and instructions transmitted by the Office 
of the Interconnection upon receipt. 
 
1.11.3A  Maximum Generation Emergency. 
 
If the Office of the Interconnection declares a Maximum Generation Emergency, all deliveries to 
load that is served by Point-to-Point Transmission Service outside the PJM Region from 
Generation Capacity Resources committed to service of PJM loads under the Reliability Pricing 
Model or Fixed Resource Requirement Alternative may be interrupted in order to serve load in the 
PJM Region. 
 
1.11.4 Regulation. 
 
 (a) A Market Buyer may satisfy its Regulation Obligation from its own generation 
resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources capable of performing 
Regulation service, by contractual arrangements with other Market Participants able to provide 
Regulation service, or by purchases from the PJM Interchange Energy Market at the rates set forth 
in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.2.2.  PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to 
the purchases and sales of Regulation service in the PJM Interchange Energy Market; provided 
that PJMSettlement shall not be a contracting party to bilateral transactions between Market 
Participants or with respect to a self-schedule or self-supply of generation resources by a Market 
Buyer to satisfy its Regulation Obligation. 
 
 (b) The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain Regulation service from the least-
cost alternatives available from either pool-scheduled or self-scheduled generation resources 
and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources as needed to meet Regulation Zone 
requirements not otherwise satisfied by the Market Buyers.  Generation resources or Economic 
Load Response Participant resources offering to sell Regulation shall be selected to provide 
Regulation on the basis of each generation resource’s and Economic Load Response Participant 
resource’s regulation offer and the estimated opportunity cost of a resource providing regulation 
and in accordance with the Office of the Interconnection’s obligation to minimize the total cost of 
energy, Operating Reserves, Regulation, and other ancillary services.  Estimated opportunity costs 
for generation resources shall be determined by the Office of the Interconnection on the basis of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.11 - Real-time Dispatch 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 4 
the expected value of the energy sales that would be foregone or uneconomic energy that would 
be produced by the resource in order to provide Regulation, in accordance with procedures 
specified in the PJM Manuals.  Estimated opportunity costs for Economic Load Response 
Participant resources will be zero.   
 
 (c) The Office of the Interconnection shall dispatch resources for Regulation by 
sending Regulation signals and instructions to generation resources and/or Economic Load 
Response Participant resources from which Regulation service has been offered by Market Sellers, 
in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  Market Sellers shall comply with Regulation dispatch 
signals and instructions transmitted by the Office of the Interconnection and, in the event of 
conflict, Regulation dispatch signals and instructions shall take precedence over energy dispatch 
signals and instructions.  Market Sellers shall exert all reasonable efforts to operate, or ensure the 
operation of, their resources supplying energy in the PJM Region as close to desired output levels 
as practical, consistent with Good Utility Practice. 
 
1.11.4A  Synchronized Reserve. 
 
 (a) A Market Buyer may satisfy its Synchronized Reserve Obligation from its own 
generation resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources capable of providing 
Synchronized Reserve, by contractual arrangements with other Market Participants able to provide 
Synchronized Reserve, or by purchases from the PJM Synchronized Reserve Market at the rates 
set forth in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.2.3A.  PJMSettlement shall be the 
Counterparty to the purchases and sales of Synchronized Reserve in the PJM Interchange Energy 
Market; provided that PJMSettlement shall not be a contracting party to bilateral transactions 
between Market Participants or with respect to a self-schedule or self-supply of generation 
resources by a Market Buyer to satisfy its Synchronized Reserve Obligation. 
 
 (b) The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain Synchronized Reserve from available 
either pool-scheduled or self-scheduled generation resources and/or Economic Load Response 
Participant resources as needed to meet the Synchronized Reserve Requirements of each Reserve 
Zone and Reserve Sub-zone of the PJM Region not otherwise satisfied by the Market Buyers.  The 
Office of the Interconnection shall clear both the Day-ahead Synchronized Reserve Market and 
the Real-time Synchronized Reserve Market in accordance with the applicable Operating Reserve 
Demand Curve established in accordance with Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
3.2.3A.02, the offers submitted in the PJM Interchange Energy Market, and the offers submitted 
in the Synchronized Reserve Market.  Resources shall be cleared to provide Synchronized Reserve 
on the basis of each generation resource’s and/or Economic Load Response Participant resource’s 
Synchronized Reserve offer and the product substitution cost of providing Synchronized Reserve, 
energy and any other product the resource is capable of providing, and in accordance with the 
Office of the Interconnection’s obligation to jointly procure and minimize the total production cost 
of energy, and of meeting the Synchronized Reserve Requirements, Primary Reserve 
Requirements, 30-minute Reserve Requirements, and, in the real-time energy and reserve markets, 
Regulation Requirement.  However, any synchronous condenser or Economic Load Response 
Participant resource with a notification offer parameter of at least ten minutes but no more than 30 
minutes, and with a minimum run time (or minimum down time for Economic Load Response 
Participant resources) no greater than one hour, and which receives a commitment to provide 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.11 - Real-time Dispatch 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 5 
Synchronized Reserve in the Day-ahead Synchronized Reserve Market shall be committed to 
provide Synchronized Reserve in the Real-time Synchronized Reserve Market, unless the resource 
is committed in real-time to provide energy or another reserve product.   
 
 (c) The Office of the Interconnection shall dispatch generation resources and/or 
Economic Load Response Participant resources for Synchronized Reserve by sending 
Synchronized Reserve instructions to generation resources and/or Economic Load Response 
Participant resources from which Synchronized Reserve has been offered by Market Sellers, in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals.  Market Sellers shall comply with Synchronized Reserve 
dispatch instructions transmitted by the Office of the Interconnection and, in the event of a conflict, 
Synchronized Reserve dispatch instructions shall take precedence over energy dispatch signals and 
instructions.  Market Sellers shall exert all reasonable efforts to operate, or ensure the operation 
of, their generation resources supplying energy in the PJM Region as close to desired output levels 
as practical, consistent with Good Utility Practice. 
 
1.11.4B  Non-Synchronized Reserve. 
 
(a) A Market Buyer may satisfy its Non-Synchronized Reserve Obligation from its 
own generation resources capable of providing Non-Synchronized Reserve, by contractual 
arrangements with other Market Participants able to provide Non-Synchronized Reserve, or by 
purchases from the PJM Non-Synchronized Reserve Market at the rates set forth in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.2.3A.001.  PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the 
purchases and sales of Non-Synchronized Reserve in the PJM Interchange Energy Market; 
provided that PJMSettlement shall not be a contracting party to bilateral transactions between 
Market Participants or with respect to a self-supply of generation resources by a Market Buyer to 
satisfy its Non-Synchronized Reserve Obligation. 
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain Non-Synchronized Reserve from the 
least-cost alternatives available from pool-scheduled generation resources, as needed to ensure the 
Primary Reserve Requirements of each Reserve Zone and Reserve Sub-zone of the PJM Region 
not otherwise satisfied by the Resources providing Synchronized Reserve.  The Office of the 
Interconnection shall clear both the Day-ahead Non-Synchronized Reserve Market and the Real-
time Non-Synchronized Reserve Market in accordance with the applicable Operating Reserve 
Demand Curve established in accordance with Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
3.2.3A.02, the offers submitted in the PJM Interchange Energy Market, and the offers submitted 
in the Non-Synchronized Reserve Market.  Resources eligible to sell Non-Synchronized Reserve 
shall be cleared to provide Non-Synchronized Reserve on the basis of each resource’s product 
substitution cost between providing Non-Synchronized Reserve, energy and any other product the 
resource is capable of providing, and in accordance with the Office of the Interconnection’s 
obligation to jointly procure and minimize the total production cost of energy and of meeting the 
Synchronized Reserve Requirements, Primary Reserve Requirements, 30-minute Reserve 
Requirements, and, in the real-time energy and reserve markets, Regulation Requirement.   
 
(c) The Office of the Interconnection shall dispatch generation resources for Non-
Synchronized Reserve by sending Non-Synchronized Reserve instructions to generation resources 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.11 - Real-time Dispatch 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 6 
from which Non-Synchronized Reserve is available, in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  Market 
Sellers shall comply with Non-Synchronized Reserve dispatch instructions transmitted by the 
Office of the Interconnection, and in the event of a conflict, Non-Synchronized Reserve dispatch 
instructions shall take precedence over energy dispatch signals and instructions.  Market Sellers 
shall exert all reasonable efforts to operate, or ensure the operation of, their generation resources 
supplying energy in the PJM Region as close to desired output levels as practical, consistent with 
Good Utility Practice. 
 
1.11.4C Secondary Reserve.  
 
(a)  A Market Buyer may satisfy its Secondary Reserve Obligation by contractual arrangements 
with other Market Participants able to provide Secondary Reserve, or by purchases from the PJM 
Secondary Reserve Market at the rates set forth in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
3.2.3A.01. PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the purchases and sales of Secondary 
Reserve in the PJM Interchange Energy Market; provided that PJMSettlement shall not be a 
contracting party to bilateral transactions between Market Participants.  
 
(b)  The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain Secondary Reserve from the least-cost 
alternatives available from pool-scheduled generation resources and/or Economic Load Response 
Participant resources as needed to meet the 30-minute Reserve Requirements of each Reserve Zone 
and Reserve Sub-zone of the PJM Region not otherwise satisfied by resources providing 
Synchronized Reserve and resources providing Non-Synchronized Reserve. The Office of the 
Interconnection shall clear both the Day-ahead Secondary Reserve Market and the Real-time 
Secondary Reserve Market in accordance with the applicable Operating Reserve Demand Curve 
established in accordance with Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.2.3A.02, the offers 
submitted in the PJM Interchange Energy Market and the offers submitted in the Secondary 
Reserve Market. Resources shall be cleared to provide Secondary Reserve on the basis of each 
generation resource’s and/or Economic Load Response Participant resource’s Secondary Reserve 
offer and the product substitution cost between providing Secondary Reserve, energy and any other 
product the resource is capable of providing, and in accordance with the Office of the 
Interconnection’s obligation to jointly procure and minimize the total production cost of energy 
and of meeting the Synchronized Reserve Requirements, Primary Reserve Requirements, 30-
minute Reserve Requirements, and, in the real-time energy and reserve markets, Regulation 
Requirement. However, any synchronous condenser or Economic Load Response Participant 
resource with a notification offer parameter of at least ten minutes greater but no more than 30 
minutes, and with a minimum run time (or minimum down time for Economic Load Response 
Participant resources) no greater than one hour, and which receives a commitment to provide 
Secondary Reserve in the Day ahead Secondary Reserve Market shall be committed to provide 
Secondary Reserve in the Real-time Secondary Reserve Market, unless the resource is committed 
in real-time to provide energy or another reserve product.  
 
(c)  The Office of the Interconnection shall dispatch generation resources and/or Economic 
Load Response Participant resources for Secondary Reserve by sending Secondary Reserve 
instructions to generation resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources from 
which Secondary Reserve has been offered by Market Sellers, in accordance with the PJM 
Manuals. Market Sellers shall exert all reasonable efforts to operate, or ensure the operation of, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.11 - Real-time Dispatch 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 7 
their generation resources supplying energy in the PJM Region as close to desired output levels as 
practical, consistent with Good Utility Practice. 
 
1.11.5 PJM Open Access Same-time Information System.   
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall update the information posted on the PJM Open Access 
Same-time Information System to reflect its dispatch of generation resources. 
 
1.11.6 Real-time Energy Market Suspension.  
 
If the Office of the Interconnection declares a Market Suspension (the inability of the Office of the 
Interconnection to produce Zonal Dispatch Rates for a total of seven (7) or more Real-time 
Settlement Intervals within a clock hour), Real-time Prices shall be determined pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2.5.2 and the Office of the Interconnection shall notify 
Market Participants of the Market Suspension as soon as practicable. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.12 Dynamic Scheduling. 
Effective Date: 11/9/2017 - Docket #: ER17-2291-000 - Page 1 
1.12 Dynamic Transfers. 
 
  (a) An entity that owns or controls a generating resource in the PJM Region may 
request that the Transmission Provider electrically remove all or part of the generating resource’s 
output from the PJM Region through a Dynamic Transfer of the output to load outside the PJM 
Region.  Such output shall not be available for economic dispatch by the Office of the 
Interconnection.  A Market Participant otherwise eligible pursuant to section 3.2.3 to submit 
start-up and no-load values of a generating unit for consideration in calculation of the Operating 
Reserve Credit shall not be so eligible if all of the output of the generating unit is transferred 
outside of the PJM Region by a Dynamic Transfer. 
 
  (b) An entity that owns or controls a generating resource outside of the PJM Region 
may request that the Transmission Provider electrically add all or part of the generating 
resource’s output to the PJM Region through a Dynamic Transfer of the output to load inside the 
PJM Region.  A Market Participant otherwise eligible pursuant to section 3.2.3 to submit start-up 
and no-load values of a generating unit for consideration in calculation of the Operating Reserve 
Credit shall be so eligible only if all of the output of the generating unit is transferred into the 
PJM Region by a Dynamic Transfer. 
 
  (c) The Transmission Provider may implement Dynamic Transfers pursuant to a 
request under subsections (a) or (b) above, provided that the requesting entity can demonstrate to 
the satisfaction of the Transmission Provider that the requesting entity has arranged for the 
provision of signal processing and communications from the generating unit to the Office of the 
Interconnection and other participating control areas and remains in compliance with any other 
procedures and operational requirements established by the Office of the Interconnection 
regarding Dynamic Transfer as set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
 
  (d) An entity requesting a Dynamic Transfer shall be responsible for reserving the 
amount of transmission service necessary to deliver the range of the Dynamic Transfer and any 
required ancillary services as applicable.  Firm or non-firm transmission service may be used to 
deliver Dynamic Schedules.  Dynamic Schedules are not eligible to provide ancillary services.  
Only firm transmission service may be used to deliver Pseudo-Ties.  Pseudo-Ties are eligible to 
provide Regulation, Synchronized Reserve and Non-Synchronized Reserve as further described 
in the PJM Manuals.  An entity seeking to utilize a Dynamic Schedule to coordinate operations 
and beneficially manage congestion in real time with PJM may execute a mutually agreeable 
interregional congestion management agreement as contemplated in Section 2.6A of this 
Schedule. An entity seeking to utilize a Pseudo-Tie shall execute a mutually agreeable 
interregional congestion management agreement as contemplated in Section 2.6A of this 
Schedule.  An entity seeking to utilize a Dynamic Transfer shall execute an agreement 
prescribing the requirements that must be met before PJM will implement the requested 
Dynamic Transfer. Dynamic Schedule transactions that occur in real time pursuant to such a 
congestion management agreement may utilize after-the-fact transmission reservations to 
account for actual energy transfers.   
 
  (e) The Market Participant shall cooperate with PJM to ensure that changes in the 
Dynamic Transfer value do not adversely impact PJM’s management of the PJM Area Control 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.12 Dynamic Scheduling. 
Effective Date: 11/9/2017 - Docket #: ER17-2291-000 - Page 2 
Error in a manner unacceptable to PJM, and, in the event that PJM, in its sole discretion, 
determines that the Market Participant’s actions in this regard are unacceptable, PJM may 
terminate the Dynamic Transfer arrangement and may require such additional conditions as it 
deems appropriate prior to any further Dynamic Transfers. 
 
 (f) Market Sellers of generators and other sources otherwise eligible pursuant to 
Schedule 2 of the PJM Tariff to receive compensation for providing reactive supply and voltage 
control shall not be so eligible if the generating unit is outside of the PJM Region regardless of 
whether the generating unit is transferred into the PJM Region by a Dynamic Transfer. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.13 - Coordinated Transactio 
Effective Date: 11/4/2014 - Docket #: ER14-623-001 - Page 1 
1.13 Coordinated Transaction Scheduling 
 
(a) The provisions of this Section 1.13 apply to Coordinated External Transactions. 
 
(b) A CTS Interface Bid submitted in the Real-time Energy Market shall specify the 
sink, the corresponding source, and a duration consisting of one or more consecutive quarter-
hour increments.  A CTS Interface Bid shall include a bid price and a bid quantity for each 
quarter-hour increment.  A CTS Interface Bid may not be submitted or modified later than 75 
minutes before the start of the hour that includes the first quarter-hour increment for which the 
CTS Interface Bid is offered.  A CTS Interface Bid must include the associated NERC E-Tag at 
the time it is submitted. 
 
(c) CTS Interface Bids are cleared in economic merit order for each quarter-hour 
increment, based upon the forecasted price differential across the CTS Enabled Interface.  
Subject to Transmission System conditions and operating limits as described in this subsection 
(c) below, and credit limits and requirements as described in Attachment Q of the PJM Tariff, a 
CTS Interface Bid will clear if the forecasted price differential across the CTS Enabled Interface 
is greater than or equal to the bid price.  The total quantity of CTS Interface Bids cleared shall 
depend upon, among other factors, bid production costs of resources in both Control Areas, the 
CTS Interface Bids of all Market Participants, Transmission System conditions, and any real-
time operating limits necessary to ensure reliable operation of the Transmission System. 
 
(d) Any Coordinated External Transaction, or portion thereof, submitted to the Real-
time Energy Market will not be scheduled if PJM expects that the transaction would create or 
worsen an Emergency, unless applicable procedures governing the Emergency permit the 
transaction to be scheduled. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 2 - Calculation of Lo 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
2. CALCULATION OF LOCATIONAL MARGINAL PRICES 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 2 - Calculation of Lo --
> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 2.1 Introduction. 
Effective Date: 10/1/2012 - Docket #: ER12-2262-000 - Page 1 
2.1 Introduction. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall calculate the price of energy at the load buses and 
generation buses in the PJM Region and at the Interface Pricing Points between adjacent Control 
Areas and the PJM Region on the basis of Locational Marginal Prices.  Locational Marginal 
Prices determined in accordance with this Section shall be calculated on a day-ahead basis for 
each hour of the Day-ahead Energy Market, and every five minutes during the Operating Day for 
the Real-time Energy Market. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 2 - Calculation of Lo --
> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 2.2 General 
Effective Date: 5/1/2022 - Docket #: EL19-58-012 - Page 1 
2.2 General.  
 
The Office of the Interconnection calculates Locational Marginal Prices separately from and 
subsequent to the security-constrained unit commitment and security-constrained economic 