ATTACHMENT C-2 
 
Conversion of Service in the Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. and Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. 
(“DEOK”) Zone 
 
The Office of the Interconnection is scheduled to become the Transmission Provider for the 
Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. and Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (“DEOK”) Zone under the terms of 
this Tariff on January 1, 2012  and the open access transmission tariff of the Midwest 
Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (“Midwest ISO”) shall be superseded with 
respect to the DEOK Zone.  Reservations purchased on the Midwest ISO nodes prior to the 
integration of the DEOK Zone into PJM shall be converted to the appropriate service under this 
Tariff and subject to the rates, terms and conditions of this Tariff.  In addition, interconnection 
requests under the Midwest ISO tariff pending prior to the integration of the DEOK Zone into 
PJM shall be converted to requests for interconnection under this Tariff.  This Attachment sets 
forth the principles that shall govern such conversions of service. 
 
For service with an export from the DEOK Zone and an import to the remainder of the PJM 
Region (or vice-versa), the transmission service will be converted into a single reservation under 
this Tariff.  For service with an export from the DEOK Zone and an import to the Midwest ISO 
Region (or vice-versa), the transmission service cannot be converted into a single reservation 
Customers who have reservations that need to be converted will be contacted directly by the 
Office of the Interconnection.  Not all transmission service provided under the Midwest ISO 
tariff exactly matches a service under this Tariff.  Differences include variations in product 
definitions and PJM Region LMP pricing points. These variances in transmission requests will 
be converted into the defined product types explained below. The guidelines for the conversion 
of service are as follows: 
 
1. All existing reservations will retain the same capacity (in megawatts) and will be 
converted to a comparable PJM product and duration with the applicable point of receipt, 
point of delivery, and path.  Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service redirected on a 
non-firm basis to Secondary Receipt or Delivery Points under the Midwest ISO tariff 
prior to the DEOK integration date will be converted to service under this tariff on the 
basis of the original firm points of receipt and delivery.  Firm Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service redirected on a firm basis under Tariff, Part II, section 22.2 
(Modification on a Firm Basis) (or equivalent) of the Midwest ISO tariff prior to the 
DEOK integration date will be converted to service under this tariff on the basis of the 
modified firm points of receipt and delivery. 
 
2. All DEOK Zone Midwest ISO reservations extending past the integration date must 
select Source and Sink LMP pricing points, where applicable, and willing to pay 
congestion (or not), if applicable.  Willing to pay congestion (or not) must be determined 
no later than 12:00 noon EPT, 30 days prior to the DEOK integration start date. In the 
event the customer does not choose within the allotted deadline above, PJM will convert 
the service to the most closely analogous service under the PJM Tariff, in PJM’s 
judgment.  Willing to pay congestion is optional for non-firm and non-designated 
transmission service; Firm service, by definition, is willing to pay congestion.  All 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C-2 - Conversion of Service in DEOK Zone 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
converted service (as they exist) will be placed on the PJM OASIS no later than 30 days 
prior to the DEOK integration start date. 
 
3. All Midwest ISO DEOK Zone import reservations will be converted to one of the 
following service types as defined by this Tariff or on the PJM OASIS:  Spot market, 
Non-Firm Point-to-Point, Firm Point-to-Point, Network Designated or Network Non-
Designated.  This choice will be made on an individual reservation basis, based on the 
scheduling intent of the reservation. 
 
All service with an export from the DEOK Zone into the Midwest ISO will be 
represented with new PJM reservations with one of the following service types as defined 
by this Tariff or on the PJM OASIS:  Non-Firm Point-to-Point, or Firm Point-to-Point.  
This choice will be made on an individual reservation basis, based on the scheduling 
intent of the reservation. 
 
4. All existing DEOK Zone Midwest ISO extended transmission requests (i.e. monthly, 
weekly, daily) that span multiple months will be converted to their largest individual 
components as defined on the PJM OASIS.  For example, a monthly request from 
October 1 to December 1 will be converted to two individual monthly requests, October 1 
to November 1, and November 1 to December 1; and a daily request from January 1 of 
one year to January 1 of the next year will be converted to yearly service. 
 
5. Sliding monthly service (i.e. monthly service that does not run from the first day of the 
given month to the last day of the given month) will be converted to weekly and daily 
service. 
 
6. Sliding weekly service (i.e. weekly service that does not run from Monday at 00:00 to 
Sunday at 23:59) will be converted to daily service. 
 
7. Transmission service that is not currently confirmed on the Midwest ISO DEOK Zone 
OASIS nodes and is in an active state such as “Received”, “Queued” or “Study” will be 
transferred to the integrated PJM OASIS node and will maintain its initial queued date. 
 
8. All “Grandfathered” requests that exist on the DEOK Zone Midwest ISO OASIS nodes 
will require a reservation on the PJM OASIS node. 
 
9. To facilitate the OASIS transition, from one month prior to the integration start date until 
such integration start date, requests for service that are active on or after such date one 
month prior to the integration start date should be made on both the pre-integration 
transmission owner or OASIS nodes and the PJM OASIS nodes. 
 
10. Reservations will be converted based on the priority of the product. 
 
11. Although the Office of the Interconnection will attempt to convert existing transmission 
reservations into comparable reservations on the PJM OASIS, there will be unique 
instances where this will not be possible (e.g., reliability issues, etc.). In this case, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C-2 - Conversion of Service in DEOK Zone 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 3 
reservations will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  Transmission service that is not 
currently accepted on the DEOK Zone Midwest ISO OASIS nodes and is in an active 
state such as “Received”, “Queued” or “Study” will be assigned the same status and 
queue position on the PJM OASIS as it had on the Midwest ISO OASIS prior to 
conversion. 
 
12. Converted Point-to-Point and Network transmission service reservations that intersect 
with or begin after the integration commencement date will be posted to the PJM OASIS 
web page on a weekly basis.  The web page will identify the original DEOK Zone 
Midwest ISO reservation and the new PJM OASIS reservation. 
 
13. An Interconnection Request pending under the Midwest ISO OATT at the time of the 
integration of the DEOK Zone shall be assigned the same priority date under this Tariff 
as such request had under the Midwest ISO’s OATT immediately prior to such 
integration.  The Interconnection Request will be assigned a PJM queue identifier such 
that the Interconnection Customer’s priority date relative to existing PJM queued 
Interconnection Requests can be easily determined.  All such Interconnection Requests 
will be integrated into PJM’s existing Interconnection Queue(s), effective on the DEOK 
integration start date, and will be subject to the generation interconnection procedures 
under Tariff, Part IV and Tariff, Part VI.  On the DEOK integration date, PJM will 
assume the technical studies that have been started by the Midwest ISO.  After the studies 
are complete, the Interconnection Customer will be required to pay for any Network 
Upgrades and/or Local Upgrades that are needed for the unit to qualify for Capacity 
Interconnection Rights under the this Tariff. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C-3 - Conversion of Service in the EKPC Zone 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT C-3 
Conversion of Service in the EKPC Zone 
The Office of the Interconnection is scheduled to become the Transmission provider for the 
EKPC Zone under the terms of this Tariff on June 1, 2013 and the EKPC tariff shall be 
superseded with respect to the EKPC Zone.  Reservations purchased on the EKPC OASIS nodes 
prior to the integration of the EKPC Zone which remain in place following the integration date 
shall be converted to the appropriate service under this Tariff and subject to the rates, terms and 
conditions of this Tariff.  In addition, interconnection requests under the EKPC tariff pending 
prior to the integration of the EKPC Zone shall be converted to requests for interconnection 
under this Tariff.  This Attachment sets forth the principles that shall govern such conversions of 
service. 
Customers who have reservations that need to be converted will be contacted directly by the 
Office of the Interconnection.  Not all transmission service provided under the EKPC tariff 
exactly matches a service under this Tariff.  Differences include variations in product definitions 
and PJM Region LMP pricing points.  These variances in transmission requests will be converted 
into the defined product types explained below.  The guidelines for the conversion of service are 
as follows: 
1. All existing reservations will retain the same capacity (in megawatts) and will be 
converted to a comparable PJM product and duration with the applicable point of receipt, 
point of delivery and path.  Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service redirected on a 
non-firm basis to Secondary Receipt or Delivery Points under the EKPC tariff prior to the 
EKPC integration date will be converted to service under this Tariff on the basis of the 
original firm points of receipt and delivery.  Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service 
redirected on a firm basis under Tariff, Part II, section 22.2 (Modification on a Firm 
Basis) (or equivalent) of the EKPC tariff prior to the EKPC integration date will be 
converted to service under this Tariff on the basis of the modified firm points of receipt 
and delivery. 
2. All EKPC reservations extending past the integration date must select Source and Sink 
LMP pricing points corresponding to the appropriate interface, where applicable, willing 
to pay through (or not), a new product if applicable.  Willing to pay congestion (or not) 
must be determined no later than 12:00 noon EPT, 30 days prior to the EKPC integration 
start date.  In the event the customer does not choose within the allotted deadline above, 
PJM will convert the service to the most closely analogous service under the PJM Tariff, 
in PJM’s judgment.  Willing to pay congestion is optional for non-firm and non-
designated transmission service; Firm service, by definition, is willing to pay congestion.  
All converted service (as they exist) will be placed on the PJM OASIS no later than 30 
days prior to the EKPC integration start date. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C-3 - Conversion of Service in the EKPC Zone 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
3. All EKPC import reservations will be converted to one of the following service types as 
defined by this Tariff or on the PJM OASIS.  Spot market, Non-Firm Point-to-Point, 
Network Designated or Network Non-Designated.  This choice will be made on an 
individual reservation basis, based on the scheduling intent of the reservation. 
4. All existing EKPC Zone extended transmission requests (i.e. monthly, weekly, daily) that 
span multiple months will be converted to their largest individual components as defined 
on the PJM OASIS.  For example, a monthly request from October 1 to December 1 will 
be converted to two individual monthly requests, October 1 to November 1, and 
November 1 to December 1; and daily request from January 1 of one year to January 1 of 
the next year will be converted to yearly service. 
5. Sliding monthly service (i.e., monthly service that does not run from the first day of the 
given month to the last day of the given month) will be converted to weekly and daily 
service.  
6. Sliding weekly service (i.e., weekly service that does not run from Monday at 00:00 to 
Sunday at 23:59) will be converted to daily service. 
7. Transmission service that is not currently confirmed on the EKPC OASIS nodes and is in 
active status such as “Received,” “Queued” or “Study” will be transferred to the 
integrated PJM OASIS node and will maintain its initial queued date. 
8. All “Grandfathered” requests that exist on the EKPC OASIS nodes will require a 
reservation on the PJM OASIS node. 
9. To facilitate the OASIS transition, from one month prior to the respective integration start 
date until such integration start date, requests for service that are active on or after such 
date one month prior to the integration start date should be made on both the pre-
integration transmission owner or OASIS nodes and the PJM OASIS nodes. 
10. Reservations will be converted based on the priority of the product. 
11. Although the Office of the Interconnection will attempt to convert existing transmission 
reservations into comparable reservations on the PJM OASIS, there will be unique 
instances where this will not be possible (e.g., reliability issues, etc.).  In this case, 
reservations will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.  Transmission service that is not 
currently accepted on the EKPC Zone OASIS nodes and is in active state such as 
“Received,” “Queued” or “Study” will be assigned the same status and queue position on 
the PJM OASIS as it had on the EKPC OASIS prior to conversion. 
12 Converted Point-to-Point and Network transmission service reservations that extend 
beyond or begin after the integration commencement date will be posted to the PJM 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C-3 - Conversion of Service in the EKPC Zone 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 3 
OASIS web page on an as-needed basis.  The web page will identify the original EKPC 
Zone reservation and the new PJM OASIS reservation. 
13. An Interconnection Request pending under the EKPC tariff at the time of the integration 
of the EKPC Zone shall be assigned the same priority date under this Tariff as such 
request had under the EKPC tariff immediately prior to such integration.  The 
Interconnection Request will be assigned a PJM queue identifier such that the 
Interconnection Customer’s priority date relative to existing PJM queued Interconnection 
Requests can be easily determined.  All such Interconnection Requests will be integrated 
into PJM’s existing Interconnection Queue(s), effective on the EKPC integration start 
date, and will be subject to the generation interconnection procedures under Tariff, Part 
IV and Tariff, Part VI.  On the EKPC integration date, PJM will assume the technical 
studies that have been started under the EKPC tariff.  After the studies are complete, the 
Interconnection Customer will be required to pay for any Network Upgrades and/or Local 
Upgrades that are needed for the generating unit to qualify for Capacity Interconnection 
Rights under this Tariff. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT C-4 - Conversion of Service in the OVEC Zone 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
