[ATTACHMENT Q - Part 2 of 3]

PJM notifying the Participant of successful completion of PJM’s verification of the Participant’s 
risk management policies, practices and procedures, as discussed herein.  However, if PJM 
notifies the Participant in writing that it could not successfully complete the verification process, 
PJM shall allow such Participant fourteen (14) calendar days to provide sufficient evidence for 
verification prior to declaring the Participant as ineligible to continue to participate in any PJM 
Markets, which declaration shall be in writing with an explanation of why PJM could not 
complete the verification.  If the Participant does not provide sufficient evidence for verification 
to PJM within the required cure period, such Participant will be considered in default under this 
Tariff. PJM may retain outside expertise to perform the review and verification function 
described in this paragraph.  PJM and any third party it may retain will treat as confidential the 
documentation provided by a Participant under this paragraph, consistent with the applicable 
provisions of the Agreements.  If PJM retains such outside expertise, a Participant may direct in 
writing that PJM perform the risk management review and verification for such Participant 
instead of utilizing a third party, provided however, that employees and contract employees of 
PJM shall not be considered to be such outside expertise or third parties.   
 
Participants are solely responsible for the positions they take and the obligations they assume in 
any PJM Markets.  PJM hereby disclaims any and all responsibility to any Participant or PJM 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.IV 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 3 
Member associated with Participant’s submitting or failure to submit its annual certification or 
PJM’s review and verification of a Participant’s risk policies, procedures and controls.  Such 
review and verification is limited to demonstrating basic compliance by a Participant showing 
the existence of written policies, procedures and controls to limit its risk in any PJM Markets and 
does not constitute an endorsement of the efficacy of such policies, procedures or controls. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
V.   FORMS OF CREDIT SUPPORT 
 
In order to satisfy their PJM credit requirements Participants may provide credit support in a 
PJM-approved form and amount pursuant to the guidelines herein, provided that, 
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, a Market Participant in PJM’s FTR 
markets shall meet its credit support requirements related to those FTR markets with either cash 
or Letters of Credit.   
 
Unless otherwise restricted by PJM, credit support provided may be used by PJM to secure the 
payment of Participant’s financial obligations under the Agreements.  
 
Collateral which may no longer be required to be maintained under provisions of the 
Agreements, shall be returned at the request of a Participant, no later than two (2) Business Days 
following determination by PJM within a commercially reasonable period of time that such 
Collateral is not required. 
 
Except when an Event of Default has occurred, a Participant may substitute an approved PJM 
form of Collateral for another PJM approved form of Collateral of equal value.   
 
A. Cash Deposit 
 
A Participant’s delivery of a cash deposit to PJM as Collateral shall constitute the grant of a first-
priority security interest in the cash in favor of PJM and PJM shall be authorized by such 
delivery to hold the cash as security and to apply it to the Participant’s financial obligations 
under the Tariff or other Agreements.  Cash provided by a Participant as Collateral will be held 
in a depository account by PJM.  Interest on a cash deposit shall accrue to the benefit of the 
Participant, provided that PJM may require Participants to provide appropriate tax and other 
information in order to accrue such interest credits.  A Participant who delivers cash to PJM 
hereunder agrees that the Tariff and any other agreements incorporating the terms of the Tariff 
shall for all purposes constitute a security agreement. 
 
Cash Collateral may not be pledged or in any way encumbered or restricted from full and timely 
use by PJM in accordance with terms of the Agreements.   
 
PJM has the right to liquidate all or a portion of the Collateral account balance at its discretion to 
satisfy a Participant’s Total Net Obligation to PJM in the Event of Default under this Attachment 
Q or one or more of the Agreements.   
 
B. Letter of Credit   
 
An unconditional, irrevocable standby Letter of Credit can be utilized to meet the Collateral 
requirement.  As stated below, the form, substance, and provider of the Letter of Credit must all 
be acceptable to PJM.  
 
(1) The Letter of Credit will only be accepted from U.S.-based financial institutions or U.S. 
branches of foreign financial institutions (“financial institutions”) that have a minimum 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 2 
corporate debt rating of “A” by Standard & Poor’s or Fitch Ratings, or “A2” from Moody’s 
Investors Service, or an equivalent short term rating from one of these agencies.  PJM will 
consider the lowest applicable rating to be the rating of the financial institution.  If the 
rating of a financial institution providing a Letter of Credit is lowered below A/A2 by any 
Rating Agency, then PJM may require the Participant to provide a Letter of Credit from 
another financial institution that is rated A/A2 or better, or to provide a cash deposit.  If a 
Letter of Credit is provided from a U.S. branch of a foreign institution, the U.S. branch 
must itself comply with the terms of this Attachment Q, including having its own 
acceptable credit rating. 
 
(2) The Letter of Credit shall state that it shall renew automatically for successive one-year 
periods, until terminated upon at least ninety (90) calendar days prior written notice from 
the issuing financial institution.  If PJM or PJM receives notice from the issuing financial 
institution that the current Letter of Credit is being cancelled or expiring, the Participant 
will be required to provide evidence, acceptable to PJM, that such Letter of Credit will be 
replaced with appropriate Collateral, effective as of the cancellation date of the Letter of 
Credit, no later than thirty (30) calendar days before the cancellation date of the Letter of 
Credit, and no later than ninety (90) calendar days after the notice of cancellation.  Failure 
to do so will constitute a default under this Attachment Q and one or more of the 
Agreements.  
 
(3) PJM will post on its web site an acceptable standard form of a Letter of Credit that should 
be utilized by a Participant choosing to submit a Letter of Credit to establish credit at PJM.  
If the Letter of Credit varies in any way from the standard format, it must first be reviewed 
and approved by PJM.  All costs associated with obtaining and maintaining a Letter of 
Credit and meeting the Attachment Q provisions are the responsibility of the Participant. 
 
(4) PJM may accept a Letter of Credit from a financial institution that does not meet the credit 
standards of this Attachment Q provided that the Letter of Credit has third-party support, 
in a form acceptable to PJM, from a financial institution that does meet the credit standards 
of this Attachment Q. 
 
C. Corporate Guaranty  
 
An irrevocable and unconditional Corporate Guaranty may be utilized to establish an Unsecured 
Credit Allowance for a Participant.  Such credit will be considered a transfer of Unsecured Credit 
from the Guarantor to the Participant, and will not be considered a form of Collateral.  
 
PJM will post on its web site an acceptable form that should be utilized by a Participant choosing 
to establish its credit with a Corporate Guaranty.  If the Corporate Guaranty varies in any way 
from the PJM format, it must first be reviewed and approved by PJM before it may be applied to 
satisfy the Participant’s credit requirements.   
The Corporate Guaranty must be signed by an officer of the Guarantor, and must demonstrate 
that it is duly authorized in a manner acceptable to PJM.  Such demonstration may include either 
a corporate seal on the Corporate Guaranty itself, or an accompanying executed and sealed 
secretary’s certificate from the Guarantor’s corporate secretary noting that the Guarantor was 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 3 
duly authorized to provide such Corporate Guaranty and that the person signing the Corporate 
Guaranty is duly authorized, or other manner acceptable to PJM.  
  
PJM will evaluate the creditworthiness of a Guarantor and will establish any Unsecured Credit 
granted through a Corporate Guaranty using the methodology and requirements established for 
Participants requesting an Unsecured Credit Allowance as described herein.  Foreign Guaranties 
and Canadian Guaranties shall be subject to additional requirements as established herein.  
If PJM determines at any time that a Material Adverse Change in the financial condition of the 
Guarantor has occurred, or if the Corporate Guaranty comes within thirty (30) calendar days of 
expiring without renewal, PJM may reduce or eliminate any Unsecured Credit afforded to the 
Participant through the guaranty.  Such reduction or elimination may require the Participant to 
provide Collateral within the applicable cure period. If the Participant fails to provide the 
required Collateral, the Participant shall be in default under this Attachment Q. 
 
All costs associated with obtaining and maintaining a Corporate Guaranty and meeting the 
Attachment Q provisions are the responsibility of the Participant.   
 
1. Foreign Guaranties 
 
A Foreign Guaranty is a Corporate Guaranty that is provided by a Credit Affiliate entity that is 
domiciled in a country other than the United States or Canada. The entity providing a Foreign 
Guaranty on behalf of a Participant is a Foreign Guarantor.  A Participant may provide a Foreign 
Guaranty in satisfaction of part of its credit obligations or voluntary credit provision at PJM 
provided that all of the following conditions are met: 
 
PJM reserves the right to deny, reject, or terminate acceptance of any Foreign Guaranty at any 
time, including for material adverse circumstances or occurrences.  
 
(a) A Foreign Guaranty: 
(i) Must contain provisions equivalent to those contained in PJM’s standard form of 
Foreign Guaranty with any modifications subject to review and approval by PJM 
counsel. 
(ii) Must be denominated in US currency. 
(iii) Must be written and executed solely in English, including any duplicate originals. 
(iv) Will not be accepted towards a Participant’s Unsecured Credit Allowance for 
more than the following limits, depending on the Foreign Guarantor's credit 
rating: 
 
 
Rating of Foreign Guarantor 
Maximum Accepted 
Guaranty if Country Rating is 
AAA 
Maximum Accepted 
Guaranty if Country 
Rating is AA+ 
A- and above USD50,000,000 USD30,000,000 
BBB+ USD30,000,000 USD20,000,000 
BBB USD10,000,000 USD10,000,000 
BBB- or below USD 0 USD 0 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 4 
(v) May not exceed 50% of the Participant’s total credit, if the Foreign Grantor is 
rated less than BBB+. 
 
(b) A Foreign Guarantor: 
(i) Must satisfy all provisions of this Attachment Q applicable to domestic 
Guarantors. 
(ii) Must be a Credit Affiliate of the Participant. 
(iii) Must maintain an agent for acceptance of service of process in the United States; 
such agent shall be situated in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, absent legal 
constraint. 
(iv) Must be rated by at least one Rating Agency acceptable to PJM; the credit 
strength of a Foreign Guarantor may not be determined based on an evaluation of 
its audited financial statements without an actual credit rating as well. 
(v) Must have a senior unsecured (or equivalent, in PJM’s sole discretion) rating of 
BBB (one notch above BBB-) or greater by any and all agencies that provide 
rating coverage of the entity. 
(vi) Must provide audited financial statements, in US GAAP format or any other 
format acceptable to PJM, with clear representation of net worth, intangible 
assets, and any other information PJM may require in order to determine the 
entity’s Unsecured Credit Allowance. 
(vii) Must provide a Secretary’s Certificate from the Participant’s corporate secretary 
certifying the adoption of Corporate Resolutions: 
1. Authorizing and approving the Guaranty; and 
2. Authorizing the Officers to execute and deliver the Guaranty on behalf of 
the Guarantor.   
(viii) Must be domiciled in a country with a minimum long-term sovereign (or 
equivalent) rating of AA+/Aa1, with the following conditions: 
1. Sovereign ratings must be available from at least two rating agencies 
acceptable to PJM (e.g. S&P, Moody’s, Fitch, DBRS).  
2. Each agency’s sovereign rating for the domicile will be considered to be 
the lowest of: country ceiling, senior unsecured government debt, long-
term foreign currency sovereign rating, long-term local currency sovereign 
rating, or other equivalent measures, at PJM’s sole discretion.  
3. Whether ratings are available from two or three agencies, the lowest of the 
two or three will be used. 
(ix) Must be domiciled in a country that recognizes and enforces judgments of US 
courts. 
(x) Must demonstrate financial commitment to activity in the United States as 
evidenced by one of the following: 
1. American Depository Receipts (ADR) are traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange, American Stock Exchange, or NASDAQ. 
2. Equity ownership worth over USD 100,000,000 in the wholly-owned or 
majority owned subsidiaries in the United States. 
(xi) Must satisfy all other applicable provisions of the PJM Tariff and/or Operating 
Agreement, including this Attachment Q. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 5 
(xii) Must pay for all expenses incurred by PJM related to reviewing and accepting a 
foreign guaranty beyond nominal in-house credit and legal review. 
(xiii) Must, at its own cost, provide PJM with independent legal opinion from an 
attorney/solicitor of PJM’s choosing and licensed to practice law in the United 
States and/or Guarantor’s domicile, in form and substance acceptable to PJM in 
its sole discretion, confirming the enforceability of the Foreign Guaranty, the 
Guarantor’s legal authorization to grant the Guaranty, the conformance of the 
Guaranty, Guarantor, and Guarantor's domicile to all of these requirements, and 
such other matters as PJM may require in its sole discretion. 
 
2. Canadian Guaranties 
 
The entity providing a Canadian Guaranty on behalf of a Participant is a Canadian Guarantor.  A 
Participant may provide a Canadian Guaranty in satisfaction of part of its credit obligations or 
voluntary credit provision at PJM provided that all of the following conditions are met. 
 
PJM reserves the right to deny, reject, or terminate acceptance of any Canadian Guaranty at any 
time for reasonable cause, including material adverse circumstances or occurrences. 
 
(a) A Canadian Guaranty: 
(i) Must contain provisions equivalent to those contained in PJM’s standard form of 
Foreign Guaranty with any modifications subject to review and approval by PJM 
counsel. 
(ii) Must be denominated in US currency. 
(iii) Must be written and executed solely in English, including any duplicate originals. 
 
(b) A Canadian Guarantor: 
(i) Must be a Credit Affiliate of the Participant. 
(ii) Must satisfy all provisions of this Attachment Q applicable to domestic 
Guarantors. 
(iii) Must maintain an agent for acceptance of service of process in the United States; 
such agent shall be situated in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, absent legal 
constraint. 
(iv) Must be rated by at least one Rating Agency acceptable to PJM; the credit 
strength of a Canadian Guarantor may not be determined based on an evaluation 
of its audited financial statements without an actual credit rating as well. 
(v) Must provide audited financial statements, in US GAAP format or any other 
format acceptable to PJM with clear representation of net worth, intangible assets, 
and any other information PJM may require in order to determine the entity's 
Unsecured Credit Allowance. 
(vi) Must satisfy all other applicable provisions of the PJM Tariff and/or Operating 
Agreement, including this Attachment Q.  
 
D. Surety Bond   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 6 
An unconditional, irrevocable surety bond can be utilized to meet the Collateral requirement for 
Participants.  As stated below, the form, substance, and provider of the surety bond must all be 
acceptable to PJM. 
 
(i) An acceptable surety bond must be payable immediately upon demand without 
prior demonstration of the validity of the demand.  The surety bond will only be 
accepted from a U.S. Treasury-listed approved surety that has either (i) a minimum 
corporate debt rating of “A” by Standard & Poor’s or Fitch Ratings, or “A2” from 
Moody’s Investors Service, or an equivalent short term rating from one of these 
agencies, or (ii) a minimum insurer rating of “A” by A.M. Best.  PJMSettlement 
will consider the lowest applicable rating to be the rating of the surety.  If the rating 
of a surety providing a surety bond is lowered below A/A2 by any rating agency, 
then PJMSettlement may require the Participant to provide a surety bond from 
another surety that is rated A/A2 or better, or to provide another form of Collateral.  
 
(ii) The surety bond shall have an initial period of at least one year, and shall state that 
it shall renew automatically for successive one-year periods, until terminated upon 
at least ninety (90) days prior written notice from the issuing surety.  If PJM 
receives notice from the issuing surety that the current surety bond is being 
cancelled, the Participant will be required to provide evidence, acceptable to PJM, 
that such surety bond will be replaced with appropriate Collateral, effective as of 
the cancellation date of the surety bond, no later than thirty (30) days before the 
cancellation date of the surety bond, and no later than ninety (90) days after the 
notice of cancellation.  Failure to do so will constitute a default under this 
Attachment Q and one of more of the Agreements enabling PJM to immediately 
demand payment of the full value of the surety bond.  
 
(iii) PJM will post on its web site an acceptable standard form of a surety bond that 
should be utilized by a Participant choosing to submit a surety bond to establish 
credit at PJM.  The acceptable standard form of surety bond will include non-
negotiable provisions, including but not be limited to, a payment on demand 
feature, requirement that the bond be construed pursuant to Pennsylvania law,  
making the surety’s obligation to pay out on the bond absolute and unconditional 
irrespective of the principal’s (Market Participant’s) bankruptcy, terms of any other 
agreements, investigation of the Market Participant by any entity or governmental 
authority, or PJM first attempting to collect payment from the Market Participant, 
and will require, among other things, that (a) the surety waive all rights that would 
be available to a principal or surety under the law, including but not limited to any 
right to investigate or verify any matter related to a demand for payment, rights to 
set-off amounts due by PJM to the Market Participant, and all counterclaims, (b) 
the surety expressly waive all of its and the principal’s defenses, including 
illegality, fraud in the inducement, reliance on statements or representations of PJM 
and every other typically available defense; (c) the language of the bond that is 
determinative of the surety’s obligation, and not the underlying agreement or 
arrangement between the principal and the oblige; (d) the bond shall not be 
conditioned on PJM first resorting to any other means of security or collateral, or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.V 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 7 
pursuing any other remedies it may have; and (e) the surety acknowledge the 
continuing nature of its obligations in the event of termination or nonrenewal of the 
surety bond to make clear the surety remains liable for any obligations that arose 
before the effective date of its notice of cancellation of the surety bond.  If the surety 
bond varies in any way from the standard format, it must first be reviewed and 
approved by PJM.  PJM shall not accept any surety bond that varies in any material 
way from the standard format.   
 
(iv) All costs associated with obtaining and maintaining a surety bond and meeting the 
Attachment Q provisions are the responsibility of the Participant. 
 
(v) PJM shall not accept surety bonds with an aggregate value greater than $10 million 
dollars ($10,000,000) issued by any individual surety on behalf of any individual 
Participant.  
 
(vi) PJM shall not accept surety bonds with an aggregate value greater than $50 million 
dollars ($50,000,000) issued by any individual surety. 
 
E.  PJM Administrative Charges 
 
Collateral or credit support held by PJM shall also secure obligations to PJM for PJM 
administrative charges, and may be liquidated to satisfy all such obligations in an Event of 
Default. 
 
F. Collateral and Credit Support Held by PJM  
 
Collateral or credit support submitted by Participants and held by PJM shall be held by PJM for 
the benefit of PJM. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
VI. SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR SCREENED 
TRANSACTIONS 
 
A. Virtual and Export Transaction Screening 
 
1. Credit for Virtual and Export Transactions 
 
Export Transactions and Virtual Transactions both utilize Credit Available for Virtual 
Transactions to support their credit requirements.   
 
PJM does not require a Market Participant to establish separate or additional credit for 
submitting Virtual or Export Transactions; however, once transactions are submitted and 
accepted by PJM, PJM may require credit supporting those transactions to be held until the 
transactions are completed and their financial impact incorporated into the Market Participant’s 
Obligations.  If a Market Participant chooses to establish additional Collateral and/or Unsecured 
Credit Allowance in order to increase its Credit Available for Virtual Transactions, the Market 
Participant’s Working Credit Limit for Virtual Transactions shall be increased in accordance 
with the definition thereof.  The Collateral and/or Unsecured Credit Allowance available to 
increase a Market Participant’s Credit Available for Virtual Transactions shall be the amount of 
Collateral and/or Unsecured Credit Allowance available after subtracting any credit required for 
Minimum Participation Requirements, FTR, RPM or other credit requirement determinants 
defined in this Attachment Q, as applicable. 
 
If a Market Participant chooses to provide additional Collateral in order to increase its Credit 
Available for Virtual Transactions PJM may establish a reasonable timeframe, not to exceed 
three months, for which such Collateral must be maintained.  PJM will not impose such 
restriction on a deposit unless a Market Participant is notified prior to making the deposit.  Such 
restriction, if applied, shall be applied to all future deposits by all Market Participants engaging 
in Virtual Transactions. 
 
A Market Participant may increase its Credit Available for Virtual Transactions by providing 
additional Collateral to PJM.  PJM will make a good faith effort to make new Collateral 
available as Credit Available for Virtual Transactions as soon as practicable after confirmation of 
receipt.  In any event, however, Collateral received and confirmed by noon on a Business Day 
will be applied (as provided under this Attachment Q) to Credit Available for Virtual 
Transactions no later than 10:00 am on the following Business Day.  Receipt and acceptance of 
wired funds for cash deposit shall mean actual receipt by PJM’s bank, deposit into PJM’s 
customer deposit account, confirmation by PJM that such wire has been received and deposited, 
and entry into PJM’s credit system.  Receipt and acceptance of letters of credit or surety bonds 
shall mean receipt of the original Letter of Credit or surety bond, or amendment thereto, 
confirmation from PJM’s credit and legal staffs that such Letter of Credit or surety bond, or 
amendment thereto conforms to PJM’s requirements, which confirmation shall be made in a 
reasonable and practicable timeframe, and entry into PJM’s credit system.  To facilitate this 
process, bidders submitting additional Collateral for the purpose of increasing their Credit 
Available for Virtual Transactions are advised to submit such Collateral well in advance of the 
desired time, and to specifically notify PJM of such submission. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 2 
 
A Market Participant wishing to submit Virtual or Export Transactions must allocate within 
PJM’s credit system the appropriate amount of Credit Available for Virtual Transactions to the 
virtual and export allocation sections within each customer account in which it wishes to submit 
such transactions.  
 
2. Virtual Transaction Screening  
 
All Virtual Transactions submitted to PJM shall be subject to a credit screen prior to acceptance 
in the Day-ahead Energy Market.  The credit screen is applied separately for each of a Market 
Participant’s customer accounts.  The credit screen process will automatically reject Virtual 
Transactions submitted by the Market Participant in a customer account if the Market 
Participant’s Credit Available for Virtual Transactions, allocated on a customer account basis, is 
exceeded by the Virtual Credit Exposure that is calculated based on the Market Participant’s 
Virtual Transactions submitted, as described below. 
 
A Market Participant’s Virtual Credit Exposure will be calculated separately for each customer 
account on a daily basis for all Virtual Transactions submitted by the Market Participant for the 
next Operating Day using the following equation: 
 
Virtual Credit Exposure = INC and DEC Exposure + Up-to Congestion Exposure  
Where: 
 
(a) INC and DEC Exposure for each customer account is calculated as: 
 
 (i) ((the total MWh bid or offered, whichever is greater, hourly at each node) x the Nodal 
Reference Price x 1 day) summed over all nodes and all hours; plus (ii) ((the difference between 
the total bid MWh cleared and total offered MWh cleared hourly at each node) x Nodal 
Reference Price) summed over all nodes and all hours for the previous cleared Day-ahead 
Energy Market. 
 
(b) Up-to Congestion Exposure for each customer account is calculated as: 
 
(i) Total MWh bid hourly for each Up-to Congestion Transaction x (price bid – Up-to 
Congestion Reference Price) summed over all Up-to Congestion Transactions and all hours; plus 
(ii) Total MWh cleared hourly for each Up-to Congestion Transaction x (cleared price – Up-to 
Congestion Reference Price) summed over all Up-to Congestion Transactions and all hours for 
the previous cleared Day-ahead Energy Market, provided that hours for which the calculation for 
an Up-to Congestion Transaction is negative, it shall be deemed to have a zero contribution to 
the sum. 
 
3. Export Transaction Screening 
 
Export Transactions in the Real-time Energy Market shall be subject to Export Transaction 
Screening.  Export Transaction Screening may be performed either for the duration of the entire 
Export Transaction, or separately for each time interval comprising an Export Transaction.  PJM 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 3 
will deny or curtail all or a portion (based on the relevant time interval) of  an Export Transaction  
if that Export Transaction, or portion thereof, would otherwise cause the Market Participant's 
Export Credit Exposure to exceed its Credit Available for Export Transactions.  Export 
Transaction Screening shall be applied separately for each Operating Day and shall also be 
applied to each Export Transaction one or more times prior to the market clearing process for 
each relevant time interval.  Export Transaction Screening shall not apply to transactions 
established directly by and between PJM and a neighboring Balancing Authority for the purpose 
of maintaining reliability. 
 
A Market Participant’s credit exposure for an individual Export Transaction shall be the MWh 
volume of the Export Transaction for each relevant time interval multiplied by each relevant 
Export Transaction Price Factor and summed over all relevant time intervals of the Export 
Transaction. 
 
B. RPM Auction and Price Responsive Demand Credit Requirements 
 
Settlement during any Delivery Year of cleared positions resulting or expected to result from any 
RPM Auction shall be included as appropriate in Peak Market Activity, and the provisions of this 
Attachment Q shall apply to any such activity and obligations arising therefrom.  In addition, the 
provisions of this section shall apply to any entity seeking to participate in any RPM Auction, to 
address credit risks unique to such auctions.  The provisions of this section also shall apply under 
certain circumstances to PRD Providers that seek to commit Price Responsive Demand pursuant 
to the provisions of the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Credit requirements described herein for RPM Auctions and RPM bilateral transactions are 
applied separately for each customer account of a Market Participant.  Market Participants 
wishing to participate in an RPM Auction or enter into RPM bilateral transactions must designate 
the appropriate amount of credit to each account in which their offers are submitted.   
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 4 
1. Applicability 
 
A Market Participant seeking to submit a Sell Offer in any RPM Auction based on any Capacity 
Resource for which there is a materially increased risk of nonperformance must satisfy the credit 
requirement specified herein before submitting such Sell Offer.  A PRD Provider seeking to 
commit Price Responsive Demand for which there is a materially increased risk of non-
performance must satisfy the credit requirement specified herein before it may commit the Price 
Responsive Demand.  Credit must be maintained until such risk of non-performance is 
substantially eliminated, but may be reduced commensurate with the reduction in such risk, as 
set forth in section VI.B.3 below.   
 
For purposes of this provision, a resource for which there is a materially increased risk of 
nonperformance shall mean:  (i) a Planned Generation Capacity Resource; (ii) a Planned 
Demand Resource or an Energy Efficiency Resource; (iii) a Qualifying Transmission Upgrade; 
(iv) an existing or Planned Generation Capacity Resource located outside the PJM Region that at 
the time it is submitted in a Sell Offer has not secured firm transmission service to the border of 
the PJM Region sufficient to satisfy the deliverability requirements of the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement; (v) Price Responsive Demand to the extent the responsible PRD Provider has not 
registered PRD-eligible load at a PRD Substation level to satisfy its Nominal PRD Value 
commitment, in accordance with Reliability Assurance Agreement, Schedule 6.1; or (vi) a 
Planned DER Capacity Aggregation Resource. 
 
2. Reliability Pricing Model Auction and Price Responsive Demand Credit 
Requirement 
 
Except as provided for Credit-Limited Offers below, for any resource specified in section VI.B.1 
above, other than Price Responsive Demand, the credit requirement shall be the RPM Auction 
Credit Rate, as provided in section VI.B.4 below, times the megawatts to be offered for sale from 
such resource in an RPM Auction.  For Qualified Transmission Upgrades, the credit 
requirements shall be based on the Locational Deliverability Area in which such upgrade was to 
increase the Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit.  The RPM Auction Credit Requirement for 
each Market Participant shall be determined on a customer account basis, separately for each 
customer account of a Market Participant, and shall be the sum of the credit requirements for all 
such resources to be offered by such Market Participant in the auction or, as applicable, cleared 
by such Market Participant in the relevant auctions.  For Price Responsive Demand, the credit 
requirement shall be based on the Nominal PRD Value (stated in Unforced Capacity terms) times 
the Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate as set forth in section VI.B.5 below.  Except for 
Credit-Limited Offers, the RPM Auction Credit requirement for a Market Participant will be 
reduced for any Delivery Year to the extent less than all of such Market Participant’s offers clear 
in the Base Residual Auction or any Incremental Auction for such Delivery Year. Such reduction 
shall be proportional to the quantity, in megawatts, that failed to clear in such Delivery Year. 
 
A Sell Offer based on a Planned Generation Capacity Resource, Planned Demand Resource, 
Energy Efficiency Resource or Planned DER Capacity Aggregation Resource may be submitted 
as a Credit-Limited Offer.  A Market Participant electing this option shall specify a maximum 
amount of Unforced Capacity, in megawatts, and a maximum credit requirement, in dollars, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 5 
applicable to the Sell Offer.  A Credit-Limited Offer shall clear the RPM Auction in which it is 
submitted (to the extent it otherwise would clear based on the other offer parameters and the 
system’s need for the offered capacity) only to the extent of the lesser of:  (i) the quantity of 
Unforced Capacity that is the quotient of the division of the specified maximum credit 
requirement by the Auction Credit Rate resulting from section VI.B.4.b. below; and (ii) the 
maximum amount of Unforced Capacity specified in the Sell Offer.  For a Market Participant 
electing this alternative, the RPM Auction Credit requirement applicable prior to the posting of 
results of the auction shall be the maximum credit requirement specified in its Credit-Limited 
Offer, and the RPM Auction Credit requirement subsequent to posting of the results will be the 
Auction Credit Rate, as provided in section VI.B.4.b, c. or d. of this Attachment Q, as applicable, 
times the amount of Unforced Capacity from such Sell Offer that cleared in the auction. The 
availability and operational details of Credit-Limited Offers shall be as described in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
As set forth in section VI.B.4 below, a Market Participant's Auction Credit requirement shall be 
determined separately for each Delivery Year. 
 
3. Reduction in Credit Requirement 
 
As specified below, the RPM Auction Credit Rate may be reduced under certain circumstances 
after the auction has closed. 
 
The Price Responsive Demand credit requirement shall be reduced as and to the extent the PRD 
Provider registers PRD-eligible load at a PRD Substation level to satisfy its Nominal PRD Value 
commitment, in accordance with Reliability Assurance Agreement, Schedule 6.1. 
 
In addition, the RPM Auction Credit requirement for a Market Participant for any given Delivery 
Year shall be reduced periodically, after the Market Participant has provided PJM a written 
request for each reduction, accompanied by documentation sufficient for PJM to verify 
attainment of required milestones or satisfaction of other requirements, and PJM has verified that 
the Market Participant has successfully met progress milestones for its Capacity Resource that 
reduce the risk of non-performance, as follows:  
 
(a) For Planned Demand Resources and Energy Efficiency Resources, the RPM Auction 
Credit requirement will be reduced in direct proportion to the megawatts of such Demand 
Resource that the Resource Provider qualifies as a Capacity Resource, in accordance with the 
procedures established under the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
(b) For Existing Generation Capacity Resources located outside the PJM Region that have 
not secured sufficient firm transmission to the border of the PJM Region prior to the auction in 
which such resource is first offered, the RPM Auction Credit requirement shall be reduced in 
direct proportion to the megawatts of firm transmission service secured by the Market Participant 
that qualify such resource under the deliverability requirements of the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 6 
(c) For Planned Generation Capacity Resources located in the PJM Region, the RPM 
Auction Credit requirement shall be reduced as the Capacity Resource attains the milestones 
stated in the following table and as further described in the PJM Manuals.  
 
Milestones 
Increment of reduction 
from initial RPM Auction 
Credit requirement  
Effective Date of Interconnection Service Agreement, 
Generation Interconnection Agreement or Wholesale 
Market Participation Agreement  
50% 
Financial Close 15% 
Full Notice to Proceed and Commencement of 
Construction (e.g., footers poured) 5% 
Main Power Generating Equipment Delivered 5% 
Commencement of Interconnection Service 25% 
 
For externally financed projects, the Market Participant must submit with its request for 
reduction a sworn, notarized certification of a duly authorized independent engineer for the 
Financial Close, Full Notice to Proceed and Commencement of Construction, and Main Power 
Generating Equipment Delivered milestones.  
 
For internally financed projects, the Market Participant must submit with its request for reduction 
a sworn, notarized certification of a duly authorized officer of the Market Participant for the 
Financial Close milestone and either a duly authorized independent engineer or Professional 
Engineer for the Full Notice to Proceed and Commencement of Construction and the Main 
Power Generating Equipment Delivered milestones. 
 
The required certifications must be in a form acceptable to PJM, certifying that the engineer or 
officer, as applicable, has personal knowledge, or has engaged in a diligent inquiry to determine, 
that the milestone has been achieved and that, based on its review of the relevant project 
information, the engineer or officer, as applicable, is not aware of any information that could 
reasonably cause it to believe that the Capacity Resource will not be in-service by the beginning 
of the applicable Delivery Year.  The Market Participant shall, if requested by PJM, supply to 
PJM on a confidential basis all records and documents relating to the engineer’s and/or officer’s 
certifications.   
 
(d) For Planned External Generation Capacity Resources, the RPM Auction Credit 
requirement shall be reduced as the Capacity Resource attains the milestones stated in the 
following table and as further described in the PJM Manuals; provided, however, that the total 
percentage reduction in the RPM Auction Credit requirement shall be no greater than the 
quotient of (i) the MWs of firm transmission service that the Market Participant has secured for 
the complete transmission path divided by (ii) the MWs of firm transmission service required to  
qualify such resource under the deliverability requirements of the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 7 
 
Credit Reduction Milestones for Planned External Generation Capacity Resources 
Milestones 
Increment of reduction from 
initial RPM Auction Credit 
requirement 
Effective Date of the equivalent of an Interconnection 
Service Agreement, Generation Interconnection 
Agreement or Wholesale Market Participation 
Agreement 
50% 
Financial Close 15% 
Full Notice to Proceed and Commencement of 
Construction (e.g., footers poured) 5% 
Main Power Generating Equipment Delivered 5% 
Commencement of Interconnection Service 25% 
 
To obtain a reduction in its RPM Auction Credit requirement, the Market Participant must 
demonstrate satisfaction of the applicable milestone in the same manner as set forth for Planned 
Generation Capacity Resources in subsection (c) above.   
 
 (e) For Qualifying Transmission Upgrades, the RPM Auction Credit requirement 
shall be reduced to 50% of the amount calculated under section VI.B.2 above beginning as of the 
effective date of the latest associated Interconnection Service Agreement or Generation 
Interconnection Agreement (or, when a project will have no such agreement, an Upgrade 
Construction Service Agreement), and shall be reduced to zero on the date the Qualifying 
Transmission Upgrade is placed in service.   
 
4. RPM Auction Credit Rate 
 
As set forth in the PJM Manuals, a separate Auction Credit Rate shall be calculated for each 
Delivery Year prior to each RPM Auction for such Delivery Year, as follows: 
 
(a)  Prior to the posting of the results of a Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year, the 
Auction Credit Rate shall be: 
 
(i) For Capacity Performance Resources, the greater of ((A) 0.5 times the Net Cost of 
New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the Relevant LDA, 
in MW-day or (B) $20 per MW-day) times the number of calendar days in such 
Delivery Year. 
 
(ii) For Seasonal Capacity Performance Resources, the same as the Auction Credit 
Rate for Capacity Performance Resources, but reduced to be proportional to the 
number of calendar days in the relevant season. 
 
(b) Subsequent to the posting of the results from a Base Residual Auction, the Auction Credit 
Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for supply committed in such auction shall be: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 8 
 
(i) For Capacity Performance Resources, the (greater of [(A) $20/MW-day or (B) 0.2 
times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such auction for the Locational 
Deliverability Area within which the resource is located) or (C) the lesser of (1) 
0.5 times the Net Cost of New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year 
or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day or (2) 1.5 times the Net Cost of New 
Entry (stated on an installed capacity basis) for the PJM Region for such Delivery 
year or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day minus (the Capacity Resource 
Clearing Price in such auction for the Locational Deliverability Area within which 
the resource is located)] times the number of calendar days in such Delivery 
Year). 
 
(ii) For Seasonal Capacity Performance Resources, the same as the Auction Credit 
Rate for Capacity Performance Resources, but reduced to be proportional to the 
number of calendar days in the relevant season. 
 
(c) For any resource not previously committed for a Delivery Year that seeks to participate in 
an Incremental Auction, the Auction Credit Rate shall be: 
 (i) For Capacity Performance Resources, the (greater of (A) 0.5 times Net Cost of 
New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the Relevant LDA or (B) $20/MW-
day) times the number of calendar days in such Delivery Year. 
 
(d) Subsequent to the posting of the results of an Incremental Auction, the Auction Credit 
Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for supply committed in such auction shall be: 
 
(i) For Capacity Performance Resources, the greater of [(A) $20/MW-day or (B) 0.2 
times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such auction for the Locational 
Deliverability Area within which the resource is located or (C) the lesser of (1) 
0.5 times the Net Cost of New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year 
or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day or (2) 1.5 times the Net Cost of New 
Entry (stated on an installed capacity basis) for the PJM Region for such Delivery 
Year or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day minus (the Capacity Resource 
Clearing Price in such auction for the Locational Deliverability Area within which 
the resource is located)] times the number of calendar days in such Delivery 
Year); and  
 
(ii) For Seasonal Capacity Performance Resources, the same as the Auction Credit 
Rate for Capacity Performance Resources, but reduced to be proportional to the 
number of calendar days in the relevant season. 
 
(e) For the purposes of this section VI.B.4 and section VI.B.5 below, “Relevant LDA” means 
the Locational Deliverability Area in which the Capacity Performance Resource is located if a 
separate Variable Resource Requirement Curve has been established for that Locational 
Deliverability Area for the Base Residual Auction for such Delivery Year. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 9 
5. Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate 
 
(a) For the 2018/2019 through 2022/2023 Delivery Years: 
 
(i) Prior to the posting of the results of a Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year, 
the Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate shall be (the greater of (A) 0.3 times 
the Net Cost of New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year, in MW-
day or (B) $20 per MW-day) times the number of calendar days in such Delivery 
Year; 
 
(ii) Subsequent to the posting of the results from a Base Residual Auction, the Price 
Responsive Demand Credit Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for Price 
Responsive Demand committed in such auction shall be (the greater of (A) 
$20/MW-day or (B) 0.2 times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such 
auction for the Locational Deliverability Area within which the Price Responsive 
Demand load is located, in $/MW-day) times the number of calendar days in such 
Delivery Year times a final price uncertainty factor of 1.05; 
 
(iii) For any additional Price Responsive Demand that seeks to commit in a Third 
Incremental Auction in response to a qualifying change in the final LDA load 
forecast, the Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate shall be the same as the rate 
for Price Responsive Demand that had cleared in the Base Residual Auction; and 
 
(iv) Subsequent to the posting of the results of the Third Incremental Auction, the 
Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for 
all Price Responsive Demand, shall be (the greater of (i) $20/MW-day or (ii) 0.2 
times the Final Zonal Capacity Price for the Locational Deliverability Area within 
which the Price Responsive Demand is located) times the number of calendar 
days in such Delivery Year, but no greater than the Price Responsive Demand 
Credit Rate previously established under subsections (a)(i), (a)(ii), or (a)(iii) of 
this section for such Delivery Year. 
 
(b) For the 2022/2023 Delivery Year and Subsequent Delivery Years: 
 
(i) Prior to the posting of the results of a Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year, 
the Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate shall be (the greater of (A) 0.5 times 
the Net Cost of New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the 
Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day or (B) $20 per MW-day) times the number of 
calendar days in such Delivery Year; 
 
(ii) Subsequent to the posting of the results from a Base Residual Auction, the Price 
Responsive Demand Credit Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for Price 
Responsive Demand committed in such auction shall be (the greater of [(A) 
$20/MW-day or (B) 0.2 times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such 
auction for the Locational Deliverability Area within which the Price Responsive 
Demand is located, in $/MW-day or (C) the lesser of (1) 0.5 times the Net Cost of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 10 
New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the Relevant LDA, 
in $/MW-day or (2) 1.5 times the Net Cost of New Entry (stated on an installed 
capacity basis) for the PJM Region for such Delivery year or for the Relevant 
LDA, in $/MW-day minus (the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such auction 
for the Locational Deliverability Area within which the Price Responsive Demand 
is located)] times the number of calendar days in such Delivery Year; 
 
(iii) For any additional Price Responsive Demand that seeks to commit in a Third 
Incremental Auction in response to a qualifying change in the final LDA load 
forecast, the Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate shall be (the greater of (A) 0.5 
times Net Cost of New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for 
the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day or (B) $20/MW-day) times the number of 
calendar days in such Delivery Year; and 
 
(iv) Subsequent to the posting of the results of the Third Incremental Auction, the 
Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for 
all Price Responsive Demand committed in such auction shall be the greater of 
[(A) $20/MW-day or (B) 0.2 times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such 
auction for the Locational Deliverability Area within which the Price Responsive 
Demand is located or (C) the lesser of (1) 0.5 times the Net Cost of New Entry for 
the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day or 
(2) 1.5 times the Net Cost of New Entry (stated on an installed capacity basis) for 
the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day 
minus (the Capacity Performance Resource Clearing Price in such Incremental 
Auction for  the Locational Deliverability Areas within which the Price 
Responsive Demand is located)] times the number of calendar days in such 
Delivery Year. 
 
6. RPM Seller Credit - Additional Form of Unsecured Credit for RPM 
 
In addition to the forms of credit specified elsewhere in this Attachment Q, RPM Seller Credit 
may be granted to Market Participants, but solely for purposes of satisfying RPM Auction Credit 
requirements.  If a supplier has a history of being a net seller into PJM Markets, on average, over 
the past 12 months, then PJM may grant as available Unsecured Credit up to twice the average of 
that Market Participant’s total net monthly PJM bills over the past 12 months.  This RPM Seller 
Credit shall be subject to an ongoing credit review in accordance with this Attachment Q, section 
II, and the cap on available Unsecured Credit as established in section II.G.3 above.   
 
RPM Seller Credit is calculated as a single value for each Market Participant, not separately by 
account, and must be designated to specific customer accounts in order to be available to satisfy 
RPM Auction Credit requirements that are calculated in each such customer account. 
 
7. Credit Responsibility for Traded Planned RPM Capacity Resources 
 
PJM may require that credit and financial responsibility for planned Capacity Resources that are 
traded remain with the original party (which for these purposes, means the party bearing credit 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 11 
responsibility for the planned Capacity Resource immediately prior to trade) unless the receiving 
party independently establishes consistent with this Attachment Q, that it has sufficient credit 
with PJM and agrees by providing written notice to PJM that it will fully assume the credit 
responsibility associated with the traded planned Capacity Resource.  
 
8. Credit Review of Bilateral Capacity Transactions 
 
To the extent the capacity that is the subject of a bilateral capacity transaction already has cleared 
an auction under Tariff, Attachment DD, such bilateral capacity transactions shall be subject to 
the prior consent of the Office of the Interconnection and its determination that sufficient credit 
is in place for the buyer and/or the seller with respect to the credit exposure associated with such 
obligations. 
 
The following terms shall apply to credit reviews of Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transactions and 
Locational UCAP bilateral transactions: 
 
(a) The Office of the Interconnection shall complete its review of an anticipated Section 
4.6(b) Bilateral transaction on Locational UCAP bilateral transaction by no later than the close of 
the next Business Day if such Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational UCAP bilateral 
transaction has been received by the Office of the Interconnection’s Credit Department for 
review by 1:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time. 
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall complete its review of an anticipated Section 
4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational UCAP bilateral transaction by no later than the close of 
the second (2nd) Business Day if such Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational UCAP 
bilateral transaction has been received by the Office of the Interconnection’s Credit Department 
for review after 1:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time. 
 
(c) The timing of the Market Participants’ submission of an anticipated Section 4.6(b) 
Bilateral transaction or Locational UCAP bilateral transaction to the Office of the 
Interconnection’s Credit Department for review, relative to the desired transaction start date, is at 
the Market Participants’ discretion.  The Market Participants, however, assume all risk in 
delaying the submission to the Office of the Interconnection and the Market Participants hold the 
Office of the Interconnection harmless from any consequences of such delay. 
 
(d) The Office of the Interconnection will make reasonable efforts to communicate its credit 
determination and any associated requirements regarding the anticipated Section 4.6(b) Bilateral 
transaction or Locational UCAP bilateral transaction with the buyer and seller in advance of the 
deadlines set forth in subparts (a) and (b) above. 
 
(e) Each submission of an anticipated Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational 
UCAP bilateral transaction to the Office of the Interconnection for its review shall contain the 
following information supplied by the buyer and/or seller: (i) seller’s account; (ii) buyer’s 
account; (iii) auction/resource; (iv) quantity (MWs); (v) price; (vi) total notional value; and (vii) 
start and end dates. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 12 
(f) All credit reviews of Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transactions and Locational UCAP bilateral 
transactions, including, but not limited to, with respect to the creditworthiness of the buyer and 
seller, the impact of the anticipated Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational UCAP 
bilateral transaction on the buyer and seller, and the determination and timing requirements of 
any additional credit that the Office of the Interconnection may require from one or both of buyer 
and seller as a condition for its consenting to the transaction, shall be performed by the Office of 
the Interconnection in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment Q. 
 
(g) For anticipated Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transactions and Locational UCAP bilateral 
transactions in which (i) both the buyer and seller have external “investment grade” ratings and 
(ii) the total notional value of the anticipated Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational 
UCAP bilateral transaction is less than the Unsecured Credit Allowance for each of the buyer 
and seller, the Office of the Interconnection will be deemed to have consented to such transaction 
unless the Office of the Interconnection has informed the buyer and seller otherwise in advance 
of the applicable deadline under subparts (a) and (b) above. 
 
C. Financial Transmission Right Auctions 
 
Credit requirements described herein for FTR activity are applied separately for each customer 
account of a Market Participant, unless specified otherwise in this section C.  FTR Participants 
must designate the appropriate amount of credit to each separate customer account in which any 
activity occurs or will occur. 
 
1. FTR Credit Limit. 
 
Participants must maintain their FTR Credit Limit at a level equal to or greater than their FTR 
Credit Requirement for each applicable account.  FTR Credit Limits will be established only by a 
Participant providing Collateral and designating the available credit to specific accounts. 
 
2. FTR Credit Requirement. 
 
For each Market Participant with FTR activity, PJM shall calculate an FTR Credit Requirement.  
The FTR Credit Requirement shall be calculated on a portfolio basis for each Market Participant 
based on (a) initial margin, (b) Auction Revenue Right Credits, (c) Mark-to-Auction Value, (d) 
application of a 10¢ per MWh minimum value adjustment, and (e) realized gains and/or losses, 
as set forth in subsections (a)-(e) of this subsection, employing the formula: 
 
Max { Max ( IM – ARR – MTA, Ten Cent per Mwh Minimum) – Realized  Gains and/or 
Losses, 0} 
 
Where IM is the initial margin, ARR is Auction Revenue Rights Credits and MTA is the Mark-
to-Auction Value.  The FTR Credit Requirement may be increased to reflect any change in the 
value of a Market Participant’s portfolio requiring an increase in Collateral as further described 
below.   
 
(a) Initial Margin 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 13 
 
Initial margin shall be calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 
 IM = FTR Obligations IM + FTR Options IM 
 
The model will employ a confidence interval of 99 percent. 
 
(i) FTR Obligations IM  
 
Initial margin values for Financial Transmission Right Obligations shall be determined utilizing 
a historical simulation value-at-risk methodology that calculates the size and value at risk of the 
applicable FTR portfolio based on a defined confidence interval and subject to a weighted 
aggregation method that is represented by a straight sum for long term positions and a 
combination of straight sum (20%) and weighted root sum of squares (80%) for balance of 
planning period positions.   
 
(ii)  FTR Options IM 
 
The initial margin for Financial Transmission Right Options shall be calculated as the FTR cost 
minus the FTR Historical Values. FTR Historical Values shall be calculated separately for 
weekend on-peak, weekday on-peak, off-peak, and 24-hour FTRs for each month of the year.  
FTR Historical Values shall be adjusted by plus or minus ten percent for cleared counter flow or 
prevailing flow FTRs, respectively, in order to mitigate exposure due to uncertainty and 
fluctuations in actual FTR value.  Historical values used in the calculation of FTR Historical 
Values shall be adjusted when the network simulation model utilized in PJM's economic 
planning process indicates that transmission congestion will decrease due to certain transmission 
upgrades that are in effect or planned to go into effect for the following Planning Period.  The 
transmission upgrades to be modeled for this purpose shall only include those upgrades that, 
individually, or together, have 10% or more impact on the transmission congestion on an 
individual constraint or constraints with congestion of $5 million or more affecting a common 
congestion path.  The adjustments to historical values shall be the dollar amount of the 
adjustment shown in the network simulation model.   
 
(b) Auction Revenue Rights Credits 
 
For a given month for which initial margin is calculated, the prorated value of any Auction 
Revenue Rights Credits held by a Market Participant with Financial Transmission Right 
Obligations shall be subtracted from the initial margin for that month.  In accordance with 
subsection 3 below, PJM may recalculate Auction Revenue Rights Credits at any time, but shall 
do so no less frequently than subsequent to each annual FTR auction.  If a reduction in such 
ARR credits at any time increases an FTR Participant’s FTR Credit Requirements beyond its 
credit available for FTR activity, the FTR Participant must increase its Collateral or the FTR 
Credit Limit. 
 
(c) Mark-to-Auction Value  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 14 
A Mark-to-Auction Value shall be calculated for each Market Participant in accordance with 
subsection 7 below.   
 
(d) Ten Cent (10¢) per MWh Minimum Value Adjustment 
 
If the FTR Credit Requirement as calculated pursuant to subsections (a)-(c) above, results in a 
value that is less than ten cents (10¢) per MWh, the FTR Credit Requirement shall be increased 
to ten cents (10¢) per MWh.  When calculating the portfolio MWh for this comparison, for 
cleared “Sell” FTRs, the MWh shall be subtracted from the portfolio total; prior to clearing, the 
MWh for “Sell” FTRs shall not be included in the portfolio total.   
 
(e) Realized Gains and/or Losses 
Any realized gains and/or losses resulting from the settlement of Financial Transmission Right 
Obligations that have not been paid out will be subtracted from the FTR Credit Requirement.  A 
realized gain will decrease the FTR Credit Requirement (but not below $0.00), whereas a 
realized loss will increase the FTR Credit Requirement. 
 
3. Rejection of FTR Bids. 
 
Bids submitted into an auction will be rejected if the Market Participant’s FTR Credit 
Requirement including such submitted bids would exceed the Market Participant’s FTR Credit 
Limit, or if the Market Participant fails to provide additional Collateral as required pursuant to 
provisions related to mark-to-auction. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 15 
4. FTR Credit Collateral Returns. 
 
A Market Participant may request from PJM the return of any Collateral no longer required for 
the FTR markets.  PJM is permitted to limit the frequency of such requested Collateral returns, 
provided that Collateral returns shall be made by PJM at least once per calendar quarter, if 
requested by a Market Participant. 
 
5. Credit Responsibility for Bilateral Transfers of FTRs. 
 
PJM may require that credit responsibility associated with an FTR bilaterally transferred to a 
new Market Participant remain with the original party (which for these purposes, means the party 
bearing credit responsibility for the FTR immediately prior to bilateral transfer) unless and until 
the receiving party independently establishes, consistent with this Attachment Q, sufficient credit 
with PJM and agrees through confirmation of the bilateral transfer in PJM’s FTR reporting tool 
that it will meet in full the credit requirements associated with the transferred FTR. 
 
6. FTR Administrative Charge Credit Requirement 
 
In addition to any other credit requirements, PJM may apply a credit requirement to cover the 
maximum administrative fees that may be charged to a Market Participant for its bids and offers. 
 
7. Mark-to-Auction 
 
A Mark-to-Auction Value shall be calculated separately for each customer account of a Market 
Participant.  For each such customer account, the Mark-to-Auction Value shall be a single 
number equal to the sum, over all months remaining in the applicable FTR period and for all 
cleared FTRs in the customer account, of the most recently available cleared auction price 
applicable to the FTR minus the original transaction price of the FTR, multiplied by the 
transacted quantity. 
 
The FTR Credit Requirement, as otherwise described above, shall be increased when the Mark-
to-Auction Value is negative and decreased when the Mark-to-Auction Value is positive.  The 
increase shall equal the absolute value of the negative Mark-to-Auction Value less the value of 
ARR credits that are held in the customer account and have not been used to reduce the FTR 
Credit Requirement prior to application of the Mark-to-Auction Value.  PJM shall recalculate 
ARR credits held by each Market Participant after each annual FTR auction and may also 
recalculate such ARR credits at any other additional time intervals it deems appropriate.  
Application of the Mark-to-Auction Value, including the effect from ARR application, shall not 
decrease the FTR Credit Requirement below the Ten Cent (10¢) per MWh Minimum. 
 
For Market Participant customer accounts for which FTR bids have been submitted into the 
current FTR auction, if the Market Participant’s FTR Credit Requirement exceeds its credit 
available for the Market Participant’s portfolio of FTRs in the tentative cleared solution for an 
FTR auction (or auction round), PJM shall issue a Collateral Call to the Market Participant, and 
the Market Participant must fulfill such demand before 4:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time on the 
following Business Day.  If a Market Participant does not timely satisfy such Collateral Call, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 16 
PJM shall, in coordination with PJM, cause the removal of all of that Market Participant's bids in 
that FTR auction (or auction round), submitted from such Market Participant’s customer account, 
and a new cleared solution shall be calculated for the FTR auction (or auction round).   
 
If necessary, PJM shall repeat the auction clearing calculation.  PJM shall repeat these mark-to-
auction calculations subsequent to any secondary clearing calculation, and PJM shall require 
affected Market Participants to establish additional credit.  
 
Subsequent to final clearing of an FTR auction or an annual FTR auction round, PJM shall 
recalculate the FTR Credit Requirement for all FTR portfolios, and, as applicable, issue to each 
Market Participant a request for Collateral for the total amount by which the FTR Credit 
Requirement exceeds the credit allocated in any of the Market Participant's accounts.  The 
Market Participant must fulfill such demand by 4:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time on the 
following Business Day. 
 
If the request for Collateral is not satisfied within the applicable cure period referenced in 
Operating Agreement, section 15, then such Market Participant shall be restricted in all of its 
credit-screened transactions.  Specifically, such Market Participant may not engage in any 
Virtual Transactions or Export Transactions, or participate in RPM Auctions or other RPM 
activity.  Such Market Participant may engage only in the selling of open FTR positions, either in 
FTR auctions or bilaterally, provided such sales would reduce the Market Participant's FTR 
Credit Requirements.  PJM shall not return any Collateral to such Market Participant, and no 
payment shall be due or payable to such Market Participant, until its credit shortfall is remedied.  
Market Participant shall allocate any excess or unallocated Collateral to any of its account in 
which there is a credit shortfall.  Market Participants may remedy their credit shortfall at any 
time through provision of sufficient Collateral. 
 
If a Market Participant fails to satisfy a request for Collateral for two consecutive auctions of 
overlapping periods, e.g. two balance of Planning Period auctions, an annual FTR auction and a 
balance of Planning Period auction, or two long term FTR auctions, (for this purpose the four 
rounds of an annual FTR auction shall be considered a single auction), the Market Participant 
shall be declared in default of this Attachment Q.   
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VII 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
VII.  PEAK MARKET ACTIVITY AND WORKING CREDIT LIMIT 
 
A. Peak Market Activity Credit Requirement 
 
PJM shall calculate a Peak Market Activity credit requirement for each Participant.  Each 
Participant must maintain sufficient Unsecured Credit Allowance and/or Collateral, as 
applicable, and subject to the provisions herein, to satisfy its Peak Market Activity credit 
requirement. 
 
Peak Market Activity for Participants will be determined weekly, utilizing an initial Peak Market 
Activity, as explained in this section VII.A below.  Peak Market Activity shall be the greater of 
the initial Peak Market Activity, or the greatest amount invoiced for the Participant’s transaction 
activity for all PJM Markets and services in the rolling past one, two, three or four-week period.  
However, Peak Market Activity shall not exceed the greatest amount invoiced for the 
Participant’s transaction activity for all PJM Markets and services in any rolling one, two or 
three-week period in the prior 52 weeks.  
 
Peak Market Activity shall exclude FTR Net Activity, Virtual Transactions Net Activity, and 
Export Transactions Net Activity. 
 
Peak Market Activity = min [max [initial Peak Market Activity, max [greatest amount invoiced 
for transaction activity for the rolling past one, two, three, or four-week period]], max [greatest 
amount invoiced for transaction activity for any rolling one, two or three-week period in the prior 
52 weeks] 
 
When calculating Peak Market Activity, PJM may attribute credits for Regulation service to the 
days on which they were accrued, rather than including them in the month-end invoice. 
 
The initial Peak Market Activity for Applicants will be determined by PJM based on a review of 
an estimate of their transactional activity for all PJM Markets and services over the next 52 
weeks, which the Applicant shall provide to PJM.   
 
The initial Peak Market Activity for Market Participants and Transmission Customers, calculated 
weekly upon issuance of the weekly invoice, shall be the three-week average of all non-zero 
invoice totals over the previous 52 weeks.  
 
Prepayments shall not affect Peak Market Activity unless otherwise agreed to in writing pursuant 
to this Attachment Q. 
 
Peak Market Activity calculations shall take into account reductions of invoice values 
effectuated by early payments which are applied to reduce a Participant’s Peak Market Activity 
as contemplated by other terms of this Attachment Q; provided that the initial Peak Market 
Activity shall not be less than the average value calculated using the weeks for which no early 
payment was made.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VII 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 2 
A Participant may reduce its Collateral requirement by agreeing in writing (in a form acceptable 
to PJM) to make additional payments, including prepayments, as and when necessary to ensure 
that such Participant’s Total Net Obligation at no time exceeds such reduced Collateral 
requirement. 
 
In the event that the Peak Market Activity Shortfall exceeds or equals the Minimum Exposure, 
the prior week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement will be increased by an amount equal 
to n * the Minimum Transfer Amount, with n being the integer that will cause the current week’s 
Peak Market Activity credit requirement to be greater than or equal to the Participant’s current 
Peak Market Activity but less than the Participant’s current Peak Market Activity plus the 
Minimum Transfer Amount.  For the avoidance of doubt, if the Peak Market Activity Shortfall is 
less than the Minimum Exposure, the current week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement 
will remain the same as the prior week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement. 
 
In the event that the Peak Market Activity Surplus exceeds or equals the Minimum Transfer 
Amount, the prior week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement will be decreased by an 
amount equal to n * the Minimum Transfer Amount, with n being the integer that will cause the 
current week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement to be greater than or equal to the 
Participant’s current Peak Market Activity but less than the Participant’s current Peak Market 
Activity plus the Minimum Transfer Amount.  For the avoidance of doubt, if the Peak Market 
Activity Surplus is less than the Minimum Transfer Amount, the current week’s Peak Market 
Activity credit requirement will remain the same as the prior week’s Peak Market Activity credit 
requirement.  
 
In the event that there is neither a Peak Market Activity Shortfall nor a Peak Market Activity 
Surplus, then the current week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement is the same as the prior 
week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement.  
 
PJM may, at its discretion, adjust a Participant’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement if PJM 
determines that the Peak Market Activity is not representative of such Participant’s expected 
activity, as a consequence of known, measurable, and sustained changes.  Such changes may 
include, but shall not be limited to when a Participant makes PJM aware of federal, state or local 
law that could affect the allocation of charges or credits from a Participant to another party,  the 
loss (without replacement) of short-term load contracts, when such contracts had terms of three 
months or more and were acquired through state-sponsored retail load programs, but shall not 
include short-term buying and selling activities. 
 
PJM may waive the credit requirements for a Participant that has no outstanding transactions and 