ATTACHMENT H-1B 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
Section 1 Definitions 
For purposes of these Protocols: 
a.  “interested party” or “interested parties” refers to any customer or entity that is or 
may become a customer taking transmission service under Atlantic City Electric 
Company’s (“Atlantic”) Formula Rate, any party to any docket number assigned 
by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) for Atlantic’s Annual 
Update, any retail regulator or any official consumer advocate in Atlantic’s PJM 
transmission rate zone, any state attorney general and any entity with standing 
under section 206 of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”). 
b. “Errors” or “mistakes” refer to calculation error(s) in the formula rate, formula rate 
input error(s), and errors reported in the FERC Form No. 1. 
Section 2 Annual Updates 
a. On an annual basis, Atlantic shall calculate its  Annual Transmission Revenue 
Requirements (“ATRR”) applicable under Attachment H and the Network 
Integration Transmission Service and Point-to-Point rates derived therefrom.  The 
ATRR shall be applicable to services on and after the rate year from June 1 of a 
given calendar year through May 31 of the subsequent calendar year (the “Rate 
Year”) and will be submitted as part of Atlantic’s Annual Update on or before 
May 15 of each year. 
b. The Annual Update shall include: a) a populated formula rate template reflecting 
the Projected Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement (“PTRR”) which shall 
be labeled  “Attachment H-1A-PTRR” and b) a populated formula rate template 
reflecting the True-Up Adjustment (“True-Up TRR”), which shall be labeled  
“Attachment H-1A-True-Up” as further  described in Section 6 for the 
immediately preceding calendar year (“True-Up Year”).  The ATRR will 
incorporate: 1) the PTRR; and 2) the True-Up TRR for the preceding Rate Year. 
c. For each Annual Update, Atlantic shall: 
 
i) cause such Annual Update to be posted at a publicly accessible location 
on PJM’s  internet website; 
ii) cause notice of such posting to be provided to PJM’s membership; and 
iii) submit such Annual Update with the FERC as an informational filing. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-1B - Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 9/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2197-000 - Page 2 
d. If the date for making the Annual Update posting/filing should fall on a weekend 
or a holiday recognized by the FERC, then the posting/filing shall be due on the 
next business day. 
e. The date on which the last of the events listed in Section 2.b. or 2.c. occurs shall 
be that year’s “Publication Date.”  Any delay past May 15 of each year of the 
Publication Date shall result in an equivalent extension of time for the submission 
of information requests and challenges. 
f. Atlantic shall hold an Annual Meeting among interested parties (“Annual 
Meeting”) no later than forty-five (45) days after the Publication Date.  Atlantic 
shall e-mail the Service List1 and cause to be posted on PJM’s internet website 
notification of the time, date, and location of the Annual Meeting at least fourteen 
(14) days before the Annual Meeting.  The Annual Meeting shall provide 
interested parties an opportunity to seek information and clarification regarding 
the Annual Update, including input data and cost detail.  Atlantic shall 
accommodate interested parties that wish to participate in the Annual Meeting via 
teleconference or webinar.  At the Annual Meeting, Atlantic will provide a 
summary of the year-over-year results of the Annual Update, to accompany 
further discussion of key drivers of the ATRR.  The written narrative summary 
will include, at a minimum, a comparison of the total operation and maintenance 
expense, post-retirement benefits other than pensions (“PBOP”) expense, 
depreciation expense, rate base, return on rate base, income taxes, annual peak 
load, and revenue credits contained in the Annual Update with the corresponding 
values included in the prior year’s Annual Update. 
g. The True-Up TRR submitted as part of each Annual Update: 
i) shall, as specified in Attachment H, be based upon Atlantic’s FERC Form 
No. 1 data or other verifiable data for the most recent calendar year and 
shall be based upon Atlantic’s books and records consistent with FERC’s 
accounting policies; 
ii) shall, as and to the extent specified in the Formula Rate identify in the 
Formula Rate Spreadsheets a reconciliation of data that are not available 
in the FERC Form No. 1; 
 
_________________________________________ 
1 The Service List is the parties to Docket Nos. ER05-515, EL13-48, and EL15-27, and 
interested parties that request to be added to the Service List. 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-1B - Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 9/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2197-000 - Page 3 
iii) shall include the following: 
 
(a) a fully functioning Excel spreadsheet “Attachment H-1A-True-
Up” with formulas intact for that year’s True-Up Adjustment 
TRR; 
 
1. The revenue requirements for the True-Up TRR will use: 
 
(a) 13-month average balances for plant in service and 
accumulated depreciation, and simple average for 
accumulated deferred income taxes; 
(b) 13-month average historical balances for non-plant 
rate base items, including prepayments, materials 
and supplies, and reserves; 
(c)  Historical calendar year balances for expense 
items. 
 
h. The PTRR filed as part of each Annual Update: 
 
i) shall use the same inputs as in the True-Up TRR filed as part of that year’s 
Annual Update, except that:  
(a.) it will use projected 13-month average balances for plant in service 
and accumulated depreciation, and simple average for accumulated 
deferred income taxes; 
(b.) the projected revenue requirements calculation will use 13-month 
average historical balances for non-plant rate base items, including 
prepayments, materials and supplies, and reserves; the projected 
revenue requirements calculation of expense items will use 
historical calendar year balances. 
i. Atlantic shall submit with each Annual Update: 
 
 (a.) all workpapers in their native format (e.g., Microsoft excel) fully 
populated with formulas intact as necessary to permit interested parties to 
verify that each input is consistent with the requirements of the Formula 
Rate and to enable any interested party to replicate the calculation of the 
Annual Update as implemented by Atlantic; 
(b.) supporting documentation and workpapers for the data that are used in the 
Annual Update that are not otherwise available in the FERC Form No. 1, 
including all adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data in 
determining formula inputs; 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-1B - Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 9/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2197-000 - Page 4 
(c.)  notice of any change in accounting from that in effect for the calendar year 
upon which the preceding Annual Update was based that affects inputs to 
the Formula Rate or the resulting charges under the Formula Rate 
(“Accounting Changes”),2 including: 
(i) the initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy, 
consistent with what is required to be disclosed under FERC 
Form No. 1; 
(ii) the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific 
accounting direction; 
(iii) the correction of errors and prior period adjustments that impact 
the Annual Update calculation; and 
(iv) the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that 
change prior estimates. 
(d.) a worksheet identifying transmission plant in service items included in the 
Annual Update at an amount other than on a historic cost basis (e.g., fair 
value adjustments) and a narrative explanation of the individual impact of 
such items to the Annual Update; 
(e.) a worksheet identifying any asset retirement obligations (ARO) included 
in the Annual Update, including a citation to the FERC order approving 
recovery of the ARO; otherwise any such items reported in the FERC 
Form No. 1 must be deducted from the costs to be recovered in the Annual 
Update; 
 (f.) a worksheet identifying any costs and expenses related to any merger or 
acquisition of a jurisdictional facility (including, but not limited to, 
acquisition premiums and goodwill) for which Atlantic is subject to a hold 
harmless commitment that have been included in the Annual Update, 
including a citation to the FERC order approving the recovery of such 
costs and expenses; otherwise, any such costs that have been reported in 
the FERC Form No. 1 must be deducted from the costs to be recovered in 
the Annual Update, consistent with the hold harmless commitment; and 
_______________________________________ 
2 Such notice may incorporate by reference applicable disclosure statements filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) or contained in the FERC Form 1. 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-1B - Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 9/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2197-000 - Page 5 
(g.) a worksheet listing all the errors and corrections agreed to by Atlantic and 
any interested parties, or ordered by FERC, related to the previous Rate 
Year that have been incorporated into the current Annual Update. 
j.  The Annual Update shall be subject to challenge and review in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in this Attachment H-1B.  
k. The Annual Update shall not seek to modify the Formula Rate and shall not be 
subject to challenge by seeking to modify the Formula Rate (i.e., all such 
modifications to the Formula Rate – including return on equity – will require, as 
applicable, a FPA Section 205 or Section 206 filing). 
l. Formula Rate inputs for (i) rate of return on equity; (ii) depreciation rates; and 
(iii) “Post-Employment Benefits other than Pension” pursuant to Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for PBOP 
charges shall be stated values to be used in the rate formula until changed 
pursuant to an FPA Section 205 or 206 filing; provided, however, that 
notwithstanding the foregoing limitation, any changes in PBOP that do not exceed 
an impact on the formula output Network Integration Transmission Service Rate 
for Atlantic of $0.05 per kW per month as compared to the immediately preceding 
Annual Update may be included in an Annual Update without such a filing.  
Changes in PBOP expense that exceed this limit are subject to revision pursuant to 
Section 4.f. 
Section 3 Annual Review Procedures 
Each Annual Update shall be subject to the following review procedures (“Annual 
Review Procedures”): 
a.  Any interested party shall have up to one hundred fifty (150) days after the 
Publication Date (unless such period is extended by fifteen (15) days upon the 
consent of Atlantic to a written request for extension from one or more interested 
party(ies)),  to review the calculations (“Review Period”) and to notify Atlantic in 
writing of any specific challenges, including challenges related to Accounting 
Changes, to the application of the Formula Rate (“Preliminary Challenge”). 
b. Interested parties shall have up to one hundred twenty (120) days after each 
annual Publication Date (unless such period is extended with the written consent 
of Atlantic) to serve reasonable information requests on Atlantic either 
individually or jointly with other interested parties.  Information requests shall be 
limited to what is necessary to determine : (i) whether Atlantic has properly 
calculated the Annual Update under review (including any corrections pursuant to 
Section 5); (ii) whether the costs included in the Annual Update are properly 
recordable and recorded, and otherwise consistent with Atlantic’s accounting 
policies, practices and procedures consistent with the FERC Uniform System of 
Accounts; (iii) whether Atlantic’s actual costs and expenditures were reasonable 
and prudent (including whether such costs were incurred according to cost control 
methodologies); (iv) whether the input data used in the Annual Update are 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-1B - Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 9/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2197-000 - Page 6 
accurate and correctly used in the Formula Rate; (v) whether the Formula Rate 
has been applied according to its terms, including the procedures in these 
Protocols; (vi) whether Atlantic’s accounting changes are reasonable and 
consistent with the Uniform System of Accounts; (vii) the effect of any 
accounting change on the inputs to the Formula Rate or the resulting charges 
under the Formula Rate; and (viii) any other information that may reasonably 
have substantive effect on the calculation of the ATRR pursuant to the Formula 
Rate.  Information requests shall not be directed to ascertaining whether the 
Formula Rate is just and reasonable.   
c. Atlantic shall make a good faith effort to respond in writing to information 
requests pertaining to the Annual Update within fifteen (15) business days of 
receipt of such requests.  In the event that Atlantic serves any of its responses 
to timely-submitted information requests more than 135 days after the 
Publication Date, the period for submitting a Preliminary Challenge shall be 
extended day for day until Atlantic completes its responses to such information 
requests. 
d. Interested parties shall make a good faith effort to raise all issues in a Preliminary 
Challenge before filing a Formal Challenge.  Preliminary and Formal Challenges 
are limited to whether: (i) Atlantic has properly calculated the Annual Update 
under review (including any corrections pursuant to Section 5); (ii) the costs 
included in the Annual Update are properly recordable and recorded, and 
otherwise consistent with Atlantic’s accounting policies, practices and procedures 
consistent with the FERC Uniform System of Accounts; (iii) Atlantic’s actual 
costs and expenditures were reasonable and prudent (including whether such costs 
were incurred according to cost control methodologies); (iv)  the input data used 
in the Annual Update are accurate and correctly used in the Formula Rate; (v) the 
Formula Rate has been applied according to its terms, including the procedures in 
these Protocols; and (vi) Atlantic’s Accounting Changes are reasonable and 
consistent with the Uniform System of Accounts. 
e. Atlantic shall provide a written response to the Preliminary Challenge within 
twenty (20) business days after receipt of the Preliminary Challenge.  Atlantic 
shall work with the interested party that submitted the Preliminary Challenge (or 
its representative) toward a resolution of the challenge.  Any unresolved issues 
shall promptly be referred to Atlantic’s and the interested party’s senior 
representative(s) for resolution. 
f. Atlantic shall not claim that responses to information requests provided pursuant 
to these Protocols that are not otherwise privileged are subject to any settlement 
privilege in any subsequent FERC proceeding addressing Atlantic’s Annual 
Update.  Interested parties may use any information provided under these 
Protocols in filing Formal Challenges and complaints. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-1B - Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 9/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2197-000 - Page 7 
Section 4 Resolution of Challenges 
a. If Atlantic and any interested party(ies) have not resolved any Preliminary 
Challenge to the Annual Update within sixty (60) days after the Review Period, 
an interested party shall have an additional thirty (30) days (unless such period is 
extended with the written consent of Atlantic to continue efforts to resolve the 
Preliminary Challenge) to make a Formal Challenge with the FERC, which shall 
be served on Atlantic by electronic service on the date of such filing.  However, 
there shall be no need to make a Formal Challenge or to await conclusion of the 
time periods in Section 3 if the FERC already has initiated a proceeding to 
consider the Annual Update.  An interested party may not file a Formal Challenge 
with respect to an Annual Update unless that party has filed a Preliminary 
Challenge with respect to that Annual Update.  Failure to lodge a Formal 
Challenge regarding any issue as to a given Annual Update only bars pursuit of 
such issue with respect to that Annual Update, and in no event shall bar pursuit of 
such issue or the lodging of a Formal Challenge as to such issue as it relates to a 
subsequent Annual Update. Nor shall the provisions of Section 4(e) be limited by 
this Section 4(a). 
b. Any response by Atlantic to a Formal Challenge must be submitted to the FERC 
within thirty (30) days of the date of the filing of the Formal Challenge, and shall 
be served on the filing party(ies) by electronic service on the date of such filing. 
c. In any proceeding initiated by the FERC concerning the Annual Update or in 
response to any Formal Challenge by any interested party, Atlantic shall bear the 
burden, consistent with Section 205 of the Federal Power Act,  that it has 
correctly applied the terms of the Formula Rate consistent with these Protocols, 
and that it followed the applicable requirements and procedures of the Formula 
Rate in that year’s Annual Update.  Nothing herein is intended to alter the burdens 
applied by FERC with respect to prudence challenges. 
d. The time period for any entity to make changes to or challenges to an Annual 
Update shall be governed by the Formula Rate Protocols that were in effect on the 
Publication Date for the Annual Update (e.g., the time period for any entity to 
make changes or challenges to Atlantic’s May 15, 2014 Annual Update is 
governed by Section 3(d) of the Formula Rate Protocols that were in effect on that 
date). 
e. Nothing in these Protocols limits interested parties from challenging the inputs to, 
or the implementation of, the Formula Rate at whatever time errors are 
discovered. 
f. Atlantic may, at its discretion and at a time of its choosing, make a limited, single 
issue filing, pursuant to Section 205 to modify the stated values in the Formula 
Rate for amortization and depreciation rates or PBOP expense.  All parties reserve 
the right to contest such filing(s), but the sole issue in any such limited Section 
205 proceeding shall be whether such proposed change is just and reasonable, and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-1B - Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 9/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2197-000 - Page 8 
it shall not address other aspects of the Formula Rate. 
g. Except as specifically provided herein and in the Settlement Agreement dated 
March 20, 2006, in FERC Docket No. ER05-515 (including the moratorium 
provisions thereof), nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any way the right 
of Atlantic to file unilaterally, pursuant to Section 205 of the FPA and the 
regulations thereunder, changes to the Formula Rate or any of its inputs 
(including, but not limited to, rate of return on equity and Transmission Incentive 
Mechanisms) or the right of any other party to request such changes pursuant to 
Section 206 of the FPA and the regulations thereunder. 
h. Subject to Section 2.e above, it is recognized that resolution of Formal Challenges 
concerning Material Accounting Changes may necessitate adjustments to the 
Formula Rate input data for the applicable Annual Update or changes to the rate 
formula to achieve a just and reasonable end result consistent with the intent of 
the Formula Rate. 
 Section 5 Changes to Annual Updates  
a. Any changes to the data inputs, including but not limited to revisions to Atlantic’s 
FERC Form No. 1, or as the result of any FERC proceeding to consider the 
Annual Update, or as a result of the procedures set forth herein, shall be 
incorporated into the Formula Rate and the charges produced by the Formula Rate 
(with interest determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a) in the Annual 
Update for the next effective Rate Period.  This reconciliation mechanism shall 
apply in lieu of mid-Rate Year adjustments and any refunds or surcharges.  
However, actual refunds or surcharges (with interest determined in accordance 
with 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a) shall be made in the event that the Formula Rate is 
replaced by a stated rate for Atlantic pursuant to a proceeding under section 205 or 
206 of the FPA. 
b. Atlantic shall notify parties listed on the Service List of amendments filed to their 
FERC Form No. 1 after the filing of the Annual Update. 
 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-1B - Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 9/1/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2197-000 - Page 9 
Section 6 Calculation of True-up Adjustment 
a. The Attachment H-1A-True-Up shall include the actual transmission revenues 
received in the previous calendar year (“True-Up Year”) compared to the actual 
net revenue requirement (calculated in accordance with the Formula Rate) for the 
True-Up Year as determined using the completed FERC Form No. 1 report to 
determine any excess or shortfall.  The excess or shortfall due to the actual revenue 
received versus the actual net revenue requirement shall constitute the True-Up 
TRR.  The True-Up TRR and related calculations shall be posted at a publicly 
accessible location on PJM’s internet website no later than May 15 following the 
issuance of the FERC Form No 1 for the previous year, as set forth in Section 2 of 
the Protocols3.   
b. Interest on any over or under recovery of the net revenue requirement shall be 
determined based on the Commission’s regulation at 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a as set 
forth in Attachment 6B to the Formula Rate.  
 
 
_______________________________________ 
3 In order to transition to the true-up mechanism that is effective June 1, 2021, the May 15, 2021 
annual update will consist of the sum of two true-up components, each consistent with the 
methodology in effect.  The months of June, July, and August 2020 will be trued-up to the 
revenue requirements.  The months of September to December 2020 will true-up the revenues of 
the last four months of 2020 to prorated 2020 actual revenue requirement based on 2020 actual 
costs. For the May 15, 2022 annual update, the True-Up TRR will true-up the 2021 calendar year 
revenues received to 2021 calendar year actual revenue requirement based on 2021 actual costs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-2 - Baltimore Gas & Electric 
Effective Date: 4/24/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1313-000 - Page 1 
