ATTACHMENT H-28B 
Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission, LLC 
Formula Rate Implementation Protocols 
 
ANNUAL TRUE-UP, INFORMATION EXCHANGE,  
AND CHALLENGE PROCEDURES 
 
Definitions  
 
“Actual Transmission Revenue Requirement” or “ATRR” means the actual net transmission revenue 
requirement calculated and posted on the PJM website no later than June 1 of each year subsequent to 
calendar year 2017 for the immediately preceding calendar year in accordance with MAIT’s Formula 
Rate and based upon MAIT’s actual costs and expenditures. 
 
“Annual Update” means MAIT’s ATRR for the preceding calendar year, as well as the True-up for the 
prior Rate Year, as posted on or before June 1 of each year. 
 
“Formal Challenge” means a written challenge to an Annual Update or Projected Transmission Revenue 
Requirement submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the “Commission” or “FERC”) as 
provided in Section IV below. 
 
“Formula Rate” means these protocols (to be included as Attachment H-28B of the PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. (“PJM”), FERC Electric Tariff (“PJM Tariff”)) and the Formula Rate Template. 
 
“Formula Rate Template” means the collection of formulas and worksheets, unpopulated with any data, to 
be included as Attachment H-28A of the PJM Tariff. 
 
“Interested Parties” include, but are not limited to, customers under the PJM Tariff, state utility regulatory 
commissions, the Organization of PJM States, Inc., consumer advocacy agencies, and state attorneys 
general. 
 
“Preliminary Challenge” means a written challenge to the Annual Update or Projected Transmission 
Revenue Requirement submitted to MAIT as provided in Section IV below. 
 
“Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement” or “PTRR” means the projected net transmission 
revenue requirement calculated for the forthcoming Rate Year, as well as, where applicable, the most 
recently calculated True-up, with interest, to be posted on the PJM website no later than October 5 of each 
year for rates effective the next calendar year starting January 1. 
 
“Publication Date” means the date on which the Annual Update is posted. 
 
“Rate Year” means the twelve consecutive month period that begins on January 1 and continues through 
December 31. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 2 
 
“True-up” means the difference between the revenues collected by PJM based on the PTRR (net of the 
True-up from the prior year) and the ATRR for the same Rate Year, which shall be provided in the 
Annual Update on or before June 1 of the year subsequent to the Rate Year. The True-up will be a 
component of the PTRR. 
Section I. Applicability 
 
The following procedures shall apply to the Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission, LLC (“MAIT”) 
calculation of its Actual Transmission Revenue Requirement, True-up, and Projected Transmission 
Revenue Requirement. 
Section II. Annual Update and Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement 
 
A. On or before June 1 of each year subsequent to calendar year 2017, MAIT shall determine its 
Annual Update for the immediately preceding calendar year under Attachment H-28A and 
Section VII of these protocols, including calculation of the True-up to be included in MAIT’s 
PTRR for the subsequent Rate Year. 
B. On or before June 1 of each year subsequent to calendar year 2017, MAIT shall provide its 
Annual Update for the immediately preceding calendar year to PJM and cause such information 
to be posted on the PJM website.  Within two (2) days of such posting, PJM shall provide notice 
of such posting via an e-mail exploder list.   
C.  On or before September 1, MAIT shall, upon request, provide any Interested Party with: 
(1) information showing (a) each transmission project forecasted to be placed into service in the 
following Rate Year that is expected to have a direct cost of $1,000,000 (one million dollars) or 
greater, and a breakdown of the projected direct costs of each such project in as much detail as is 
reasonably available; and (b) purchases of categories of capital equipment (e.g., switches, 
transformers, relays, etc.) aggregating $3,000,000 (three million dollars) or greater that are 
forecasted to enter service during the following Rate Year, either through the use of such capital 
equipment in projects forecasted to be placed in service during the following Rate Year or as 
spare plant that MAIT determines to be needed for the safe and reliable operation of the 
transmission system in accordance with Good Utility Practice during the following Rate Year; 
and 
(2) a statement setting forth the basis for MAIT’s determination that each such transmission 
project or capital equipment purchase, as applicable, is needed for service during the following 
Rate Year (which statement may be based on a determination that the placement of the project or 
equipment purchases into service during the following Rate Year, as described below, is needed 
as part of a larger multi-year transmission project or equipment purchase project, as applicable). 
MAIT’s provision of such information shall be subject to the protection of any confidential 
information, as needed, under non-disclosure agreements that are based on FERC’s Model 
Protective Order. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 3 
D.  MAIT shall provide: (1) to PJM, MAIT’s PTRR for rates to be effective the following Rate Year, 
by October 5, and (2) upon request, to any Interested Party by October 5, (a) a list of the 
transmission projects and capital equipment purchases included in the PTRR capital projections, 
which shall be projects and capital equipment forecasted to enter service through projects in 
service or as spare plant during the Rate Year that is the subject to the PTRR; (b) a copy of the 
approved budget and/or construction plan pursuant to which such projects and equipment 
purchases have been undertaken; (c) a statement setting forth the basis for MAIT’s determination 
that each such transmission project or capital equipment purchase, as applicable, is needed for 
service during the following Rate Year (which statement may be based on a determination that 
the placement of the project or equipment purchase into service during the following Rate Year is 
needed as part of a larger multi-year transmission project or equipment purchase project, as 
applicable).  With respect to the information referenced in clause (1), on October 5, MAIT shall 
provide via an email exploder list: (i) its PTRR for rates to be effective the following Rate Year; 
and (ii) notice of such posting.  With respect to the information described in clause (2), MAIT’s 
provision of such information shall be subject to the protection of any confidential information, as 
needed, under non-disclosure agreements that are based on FERC’s Model Protective Order.  
E. If the date for posting the Annual Update or PTRR falls on a weekend or a holiday recognized by 
FERC, then the posting shall be due on the next business day.  The date on which posting of the 
Annual Update occurs shall be that year’s Publication Date.  Any delay in the Publication Date or 
in the posting of the PTRR will result in an equivalent extension of time for the submission of 
information requests discussed in Section III of these protocols. 
F. The ATRR shall: 
1. Include a workable data-populated Formula Rate Template and underlying work papers 
in native format with all formulas and links intact; 
2. Be based on MAIT’s FERC Form No. 1 for the prior calendar year; 
3. Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting 
documentation and work papers for data that are used in the ATRR that are not otherwise 
available in the FERC Form No. 1, subject to the protection of any confidential 
information, as needed, under non-disclosure agreements that are based on FERC’s 
Model Protective Order; 
4. Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the calculation of 
the ATRR results from the FERC Form No. 1; 
5. Identify any changes in the formula references (page and line numbers) to the FERC 
Form No. 1; 
6. Identify and, to the extent not explained in a worksheet included in the ATRR, explain, 
all material adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 data in determining formula 
inputs, including relevant footnotes to the FERC Form No. 1 and any adjustments not 
shown in the FERC Form No. 1; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 4 
7. Provide underlying data for Formula Rate inputs that provide greater granularity than is 
required for the FERC Form No. 1; 
8. With respect to any change in accounting that affects inputs to the Formula Rate or the 
resulting charges billed under the Formula Rate (“Accounting Change”): 
a. Identify any Accounting Change, including: 
i. the initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy; 
ii. the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific accounting 
direction; 
iii. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that affect the ATRR 
and True-up calculation; 
iv. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that change 
prior estimates; and 
v. changes to income tax elections; 
b. Identify items included in the ATRR at an amount other than on a historic cost 
basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
c. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year and 
explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to the 
ATRR; 
d. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to items II.F.8.a - II.F.8.c above, a 
narrative explanation of the individual impact of such change on the ATRR. 
9. It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and allocation 
described therein, that each input to the Formula Rate will be either taken directly from 
FERC Form No. 1 or reconcilable to FERC Form No. 1 by the application of clearly 
identified and supported information.  If the referenced form is superseded, the successor 
form(s) shall be utilized and supplemented as necessary to provide equivalent 
information as that provided in the superseded form. If the referenced form(s) is (are) 
discontinued, equivalent information as that provided in the discontinued form(s) shall be 
utilized. 
G. The Projected Transmission Revenue Requirement shall: 
1. Include a workable data-populated Formula Rate Template and underlying work papers 
in native format with all formulas and links intact; 
2. Provide the Formula Rate calculations and all inputs thereto, as well as supporting 
documentation and work papers for data that are used in the PTRR; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 5 
3. Provide sufficient information to enable Interested Parties to replicate the calculation of 
the PTRR; 
4. With respect to any Accounting Change: 
a. Identify any Accounting Change, including: 
i. the initial implementation of an accounting standard or policy; 
ii. the initial implementation of accounting practices for unusual or 
unconventional items where FERC has not provided specific accounting 
direction; 
iii. correction of errors and prior period adjustments that affect the PTRR 
calculation; 
iv. the implementation of new estimation methods or policies that change 
prior estimates; and 
v. changes to income tax elections. 
b. Identify items included in the PTRR at an amount other than on a historic cost 
basis (e.g., fair value adjustments); 
c. Identify any reorganization or merger transaction during the previous year and 
explain the effect of the accounting for such transaction(s) on inputs to the 
PTRR; and 
d. Provide, for each item identified pursuant to items II.F.4.a - II.F.4.c of these 
protocols, a narrative explanation of the individual impact of such change on the 
PTRR. 
H. MAIT shall hold an open meeting among Interested Parties (“Annual Update Meeting”), to be 
conducted via Internet webcast, no earlier than ten (10) business days following the Publication 
Date and no later than June 25.  No fewer than seven (7) days prior to such Annual Update 
Meeting, MAIT shall provide notice on PJM’s website of the time, date, and webcast registration 
information of the Annual Update Meeting, and PJM shall provide notice of the posting via an e-
mail exploder list.  The Annual Update Meeting shall: (i) permit MAIT to explain and clarify its 
ATRR and True-up; and (ii) provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and 
clarifications from MAIT about the ATRR and True-up. 
I. MAIT shall hold an open meeting among Interested Parties (“Annual Projected Rate Meeting”), 
to be conducted via Internet webcast, no earlier than ten (10) business days following the posting 
of the PTRR (as described in Section II.C of these protocols) and no later than November 30.  No 
fewer than seven (7) days prior to such Annual Projected Rate Meeting, MAIT shall provide 
notice on PJM’s website of the time, date, and webcast registration information of the Annual 
Projected Rate Meeting, and PJM shall provide notice of the posting via an e-mail exploder list.  
The Annual Projected Rate Meeting shall: (i) permit MAIT to explain and clarify its PTRR and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 6 
(ii) provide Interested Parties an opportunity to seek information and clarifications from MAIT 
about the PTRR. 
J. Each year MAIT shall endeavor to (a) coordinate with other Transmission Owners in PJM using 
formula rates to establish revenue requirements for recovery of the costs of transmission projects 
that utilize the same regional cost sharing mechanism and (b) hold a joint informational meeting 
to enable all Interested Parties to understand how those transmission owners are implementing 
their formula rates for recovering the costs of such projects. 
Section III. Information Exchange Procedures 
Each Annual Update and PTRR shall be subject to the following information exchange procedures 
(“Information Exchange Procedures”): 
A. Interested Parties shall have until January 5 following the Publication Date (unless such period is 
extended with the written consent of MAIT or by FERC order) to serve reasonable information 
and document requests on MAIT (“Information Exchange Period”).  If January 5 falls on a 
weekend or a holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for submitting all information and 
document requests shall be extended to the next business day.  Such information and document 
requests shall be limited to what is necessary to determine: 
1. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
2. whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded in accordance with 
these protocols, or includes data not properly recorded in accordance with these 
protocols; 
3. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these protocols; 
4. the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the calculations shown in 
the ATRR or PTRR; 
5. the prudence of actual costs and expenditures included in the ATRR or the 
reasonableness of projected costs and expenditures included in the PTRR, information 
concerning which may include MAIT’s utilized procurement methods and cost control 
methodologies, and the basis for and reasonableness of allocating all or any portion of 
such costs and expenditures to wholesale transmission service; 
6.  whether transmission projects or equipment purchases underlying the costs and 
expenditures included in the ATRR or PTRR are needed for service during the Rate Year 
(including as part of a larger multi-year transmission project or equipment purchase 
program, as applicable); 
7. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form 
No. 1; or 
8. any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on the calculation of 
the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 7 
The information and document requests shall not otherwise be directed to ascertaining whether the 
Formula Rate is just and reasonable. 
B. MAIT shall make a good faith effort to respond to information and document requests within 
fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such requests.  MAIT shall respond to all information and 
document requests by no later than February 15 following the Publication Date, unless the 
Information Exchange Period is extended by MAIT or FERC. 
C. MAIT will serve all information requests from Interested Parties and MAIT’s response(s) to such 
requests upon any Interested Party that requests such service, subject to the protection of any 
confidential information contained in such information requests or responses, as needed, under 
non-disclosure agreements that are based on FERC’s Model Protective Order. 
D. MAIT shall not claim that responses to information and document requests provided pursuant to 
these protocols are subject to any settlement privilege in any proceeding addressing MAIT’s 
Annual Update or PTRR, and such responses may be included in any Formal Challenge or other 
submittal addressing MAIT’s Annual Update or PTRR.  
E.  MAIT will provide, upon the request of any Interested Party, the Ground Lease Calculation 
worksheet filed with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission for the applicable Rate Year, 
provided such request is timely made consistent with the Review Period set forth in Section IV.A 
below.  MAIT shall not claim any privilege precludes the provision of such Ground Lease 
Calculation worksheet.  MAIT agrees to include in its FERC Form 1 the amount of base rent in 
Account No. 567 associated with the Ground Leases with FirstEnergy Pennsylvania Electric 
Company. 
Section IV. Challenge Procedures 
A. Interested Parties shall have until March 5 following the Publication Date (unless such period is 
extended with the written consent of MAIT or by FERC order) (“Review Period”), to review the 
inputs, supporting explanations, allocations and calculations and to notify MAIT in writing, 
which may be made electronically, of any specific Preliminary Challenges to the Annual Update 
or PTRR.  If March 5 falls on a weekend or holiday recognized by FERC, the deadline for 
submitting all Preliminary Challenges shall be extended to the next business day.  Failure to 
pursue an issue through a Preliminary Challenge or to lodge a Formal Challenge regarding any 
issue as to a given Annual Update or PTRR shall bar pursuit of such issue with respect to that 
Annual Update or PTRR under the challenge procedures set forth in these protocols, but shall not 
bar pursuit of such issue or the lodging of a Formal Challenge as to such issue as it relates to a 
subsequent Annual Update or PTRR.  This Section IV.A shall in no way affect a party’s rights 
under section 206 of the Federal Power Act as set forth in Section IV.I of these protocols. 
B. Preliminary Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in this 
Section IV and shall satisfy all of the following requirements. 
1. A party submitting a Preliminary Challenge to MAIT must specify the inputs, supporting 
explanations, allocations, calculations, or other information to which it objects, and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 8 
provide an appropriate explanation and documents to support its challenge. 
2. MAIT shall make a good faith effort to respond to any Preliminary Challenge within 
twenty (20) business days of notification of such challenge. 
3. MAIT, and where applicable, PJM, shall appoint a senior representative to work with the 
party that submitted the Preliminary Challenge (or its representative) toward a resolution 
of the challenge. 
4. If MAIT disagrees with such challenge, MAIT will provide the Interested Party(ies) with 
an explanation supporting the inputs, supporting explanations, allocations, calculations, 
or other information. 
5. No Preliminary Challenge may be submitted after March 5, and MAIT must respond to 
all Preliminary Challenges by no later than April 5 unless the Review Period is extended 
by MAIT or FERC, or as provided in Section IV.A above. 
6. MAIT will serve all Preliminary Challenges from Interested Parties and MAIT’s 
response(s) to such Preliminary Challenges upon any Interested Party that requests such 
service, subject to the protection of any confidential information contained in such 
Preliminary Challenges or responses, as needed, under non-disclosure agreements that are 
based on the FERC’s Model Protective Order. 
C. Formal Challenges shall be subject to the resolution procedures and limitations in this Section IV. 
Formal Challenges shall be filed pursuant to these protocols and shall satisfy all of the following 
requirements. 
1. A Formal Challenge shall: 
a. Clearly identify the action or inaction which is alleged to violate the filed rate 
formula or protocols; 
b. Explain how the action or inaction violates the filed rate formula or protocols; 
c. Set forth the business, commercial, economic or other issues presented by the 
action or inaction as such relate to or affect the party filing the Formal Challenge, 
including: 
(i) the extent or effect of an Accounting Change;   
(ii) whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded in 
accordance with these protocols; 
(iii) the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these 
protocols; 
(iv) the accuracy of data and consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
charges shown in the ATRR or PTRR; 
(v) the prudence of actual costs and expenditures included in the ATRR; 
(vi) the reasonableness of any projection that forms a basis of the PTRR; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 9 
(vii) whether transmission projects or equipment purchases underlying the 
costs and expenditures included in the ATRR or PTRR are needed for 
service during the Rate Year (including as part of a larger multi-year 
transmission project or equipment purchase program, as applicable); 
(viii) the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts 
or FERC Form No. 1; or 
(ix) any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on 
the calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
d. Make a good faith effort to quantify the financial impact or burden (if any) 
created for the party filing the Formal Challenge as a result of the challenged 
action or inaction; 
e. State whether the issues presented are pending in an existing Commission 
proceeding or a proceeding in any other forum in which the filing party is a party, 
and if so, provide an explanation why timely resolution cannot be achieved in 
that forum; 
f. State the specific relief or remedy requested, including any request for stay or 
extension of time, and the basis for that relief; 
g. Include all documents that support the facts in the Formal Challenge in 
possession of, or otherwise attainable by, the filing party, including, but not 
limited to, contracts and affidavits; and 
h. State whether the filing party utilized the Preliminary Challenge procedures 
described in these protocols to dispute the challenged action or inaction raised by 
the Formal Challenge, and, if not, describe why not. 
2. Service.  Any person filing a Formal Challenge must serve a copy of the Formal 
Challenge on MAIT.  Service to MAIT must be simultaneous with filing at the 
Commission.  Simultaneous service can be accomplished by electronic mail in 
accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 385.2010(f)(3), facsimile, express delivery, or messenger. 
The party filing the Formal Challenge shall serve the individual listed as the contact 
person on MAIT’s Informational Filing required under Section VI of these protocols. 
D. Preliminary and Formal Challenges shall be limited to all issues that may be necessary to 
determine: 
1. the extent or effect of an Accounting Change; 
2. whether the ATRR or PTRR fails to include data properly recorded in accordance with 
these protocols, or includes data not properly recorded in accordance with these 
protocols; 
3. the proper application of the Formula Rate and procedures in these protocols; 
4. the accuracy of data and consistency with the formula rate of the calculations shown in 
the ATRR and PTRR; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 10 
5. the prudence of actual costs and expenditures included in the ATRR; 
6.  the reasonableness of any projection that forms a basis of the PTRR; 
7.  whether transmission projects or equipment purchases underlying the costs and 
expenditures included in the ATRR or PTRR are needed for service during the Rate Year 
(including as part of a larger multi-year transmission project or equipment purchase 
program, as applicable); 
8. the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form 
No. 1; or any other information that may reasonably have a substantive effect on the 
calculation of the charge pursuant to the Formula Rate. 
E. Any changes or adjustments to the ATRR and PTRR resulting from the information exchange and 
Preliminary Challenge processes that are agreed to by MAIT will be reported in the Informational 
Filing required pursuant to Section VI of these protocols.  Any such changes or adjustments 
agreed to by MAIT on or before December 1 will be reflected in the PTRR for the upcoming Rate 
Year.  Any changes or adjustments agreed to by MAIT after December 1 will be reflected in the 
following year’s Annual Update, as discussed in Section V of these protocols. 
F. An Interested Party shall have until May 5 following the Review Period (unless such date is 
extended with the written consent of MAIT to continue efforts to resolve the Preliminary 
Challenge) to make a Formal Challenge with FERC, which shall be served on MAIT on the date 
of such filing as specified in Section IV.C.2 above.  A Formal Challenge shall be filed in the 
same docket as MAIT’s Informational Filing discussed in Section VI of these protocols. MAIT 
shall respond to the Formal Challenge by the deadline established by FERC.  An Interested Party 
may not pursue a Formal Challenge unless it submitted a Preliminary Challenge on some issue 
(which may be different from the Formal Challenge issue) during the applicable Review Period.   
G. In any proceeding initiated by FERC concerning the Annual Update or PTRR or in response to a 
Formal Challenge, MAIT shall bear the burden, consistent with section 205 of the Federal Power 
Act, of proving that it has correctly applied the terms of the Formula Rate consistent with these 
protocols and that it followed the applicable requirements and procedures in the Formula Rate.  
Nothing herein is intended to alter the burdens applied by FERC with respect to prudence 
challenges.  
H. Except as specifically provided herein, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any way the 
right of MAIT to file unilaterally, pursuant to Federal Power Act section 205 and the regulations 
thereunder, to change the Formula Rate or any of its inputs (including, but not limited to, rate of 
return and transmission incentive rate treatment), or to replace the Formula Rate with a stated 
rate, or the right of any other party to request such changes pursuant to section 206 of the Federal 
Power Act and the regulations thereunder. 
I. No party shall seek to modify the Formula Rate under the challenge procedures set forth in these 
protocols and the Annual Update and PTRR shall not be subject to challenge by anyone for the 
purpose of modifying the Formula Rate.  Any modifications to the Formula Rate will require, as 
applicable, a Federal Power Act section 205 or section 206 filing.  MAIT may, at its discretion 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 11 
and at a time of its choosing, make a limited filing pursuant to Section 205 to modify stated 
values in the Formula Rate for (a) amortization and depreciation rates, (b) Post-Employment 
Benefits Other Than Pensions rates, or (c) the weighting of the ADIT balance in rate base to 
ensure MAIT’s compliance with the IRS regulations for normalization under IRS Section 
1.167(l)-1(h)(6 ).  The sole issue in any such limited Section 205 proceeding shall be whether 
such proposed change(s) is just and reasonable, and it shall not address other aspects of the 
Formula Rate. 
J. Any Interested Party seeking changes to the application of the Formula Rate due to a change in 
the Uniform System of Accounts or FERC Form No. 1 shall first raise the matter with MAIT in 
accordance with this Section IV before pursuing a Formal Challenge. 
Section V. Changes to Actual Transmission Revenue Requirement or Projected Transmission 
Revenue Requirement 
A. Except as provided in Section IV.E of these protocols, any changes to the data inputs, including 
but not limited to revisions to MAIT’s FERC Form No. 1, or as the result of any FERC 
proceeding to consider the ATRR or PTRR, or as a result of the procedures set forth herein, shall 
be incorporated into the Formula Rate and the charges produced by the Formula Rate in the 
PTRR for the next Rate Year.  This reconciliation mechanism shall apply in lieu of mid-Rate 
Year adjustments.  Interest on any refund or surcharge shall be calculated in accordance with the 
procedures outlined in Section VII of these protocols. 
B.  In the event that MAIT identifies an error in the Annual Update (or its FERC Form No. 1 or 
successor form which is used as an input to the Formula Rate), or if MAIT is required by 
applicable law or a court or a regulatory body to correct such error,  MAIT shall correct the error 
in good faith and without regard to whether the correction increases or decreases MAIT’s revenue 
requirements.  MAIT shall implement the correction in the next Annual Update following the 
identification of the error or the order of a court or regulatory body.  Nothing in these protocols 
should or may be construed as preventing Interested Parties from protesting such correction. 
Section VI. Informational Filings 
A. By June 1 of each year, MAIT shall submit to FERC in a new docket an informational filing 
(“Informational Filing”) of its PTRR for the Rate Year, including its ATRR and True-up reflected 
in that PTRR.  This Informational Filing must include information that is reasonably necessary to 
determine: 
1. that input data under the Formula Rate are properly recorded in any underlying work 
papers; 
2. that MAIT has properly applied the Formula Rate and these procedures; 
3. the accuracy of data and the consistency with the Formula Rate of the transmission 
revenue requirement and rates under review; 
4. the extent of Accounting Changes that affect Formula Rate inputs; and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 12 
5. the reasonableness of projected costs and the prudence of actual costs. 
The Informational Filing must also describe any corrections or adjustments made during the 
period since the Publication Date, and must describe all aspects of the Formula Rate or its inputs 
that are the subject of an ongoing dispute under the Preliminary or Formal Challenge procedures.  
 
Finally, the Informational Filing shall include for the applicable Rate Year the following 
information related to affiliate cost allocation: a detailed description of the methodologies used to 
allocate and directly assign costs between MAIT and its affiliates by service category or function, 
including any changes to such cost allocation methodologies from the prior year, and the reasons 
and justification for those changes; the magnitude of such costs that have been allocated or 
directly assigned between MAIT and each affiliate by service category or function; and a copy of 
any service agreement between MAIT and any MAIT affiliate that went into effect during the 
Rate Year. 
 
Within five (5) days of such Informational Filing, PJM shall provide notice of the Informational 
Filing via an e-mail exploder list and by posting the docket number assigned to MAIT’s 
Informational Filing on the PJM website, subject to the protection of any confidential information 
contained in the Informational Filing, as needed, under nondisclosure agreements that are based 
on FERC’s Model Protective Order.  
B. Any challenges to the implementation of the MAIT formula rate must be made through the 
challenge procedures described in Section IV of these protocols or in a separate complaint 
proceeding, and not in response to the Informational Filing. 
Section VII. Calculation of True-up 
The True-up will be determined in the following manner: 
A. As part of the Annual Update for each Rate Year, MAIT shall determine the difference between 
the revenues collected by PJM based on the PTRR for the Rate Year (net of the True-up from the 
prior year) and the ATRR for the same Rate Year based on actual cost data as reflected in its 
FERC Form No. 1.  The True-up will be determined as follows: 
i. The ATRR for the previous Rate Year as determined using MAIT’s completed FERC 
Form No. 1 report shall be compared to the revenues collected by PJM based on the 
PTRR (net of the True-up from the prior year) for that same Rate Year (“True-up Year”) 
to determine any excess or shortfall in the revenues collected by PJM in the True-up 
Year.  The revenue excess or shortfall determined by this comparison shall constitute the 
“True-up.” 
ii. Interest on any True-up shall be based on  the interest rate equal to:  (i) MAIT’s actual 
short-term debt costs capped at the interest rate determined by 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a; or (ii) 
the interest rate determined by 18 C.F.R. § 35.19, if MAIT does not have short term debt.  
Interest rates will be used to calculate the time value of money for the period that the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-28B - MAIT Implementation Protocols 
Effective Date: 1/1/2024 - Docket #: ER24-284-000 - Page 13 
True-up exists.  The interest rate to be applied to the True-up will be determined using 
the average rate for the twenty (20) months preceding September of the current year.  
B. MAIT will post on PJM’s website all information relating to the True-up as part of the Annual 
Update.  As provided in Section II.B. of these Protocols, MAIT shall provide its Annual Update 
for the immediately preceding calendar year to PJM and cause such information to be posted on 
the PJM website on or before June 1 of each year subsequent to calendar year 2017. 
Section VIII. Formula Rate Inputs 
A. Stated inputs to the Formula Rate Template:  For (i) rate of return on common equity; (ii) “Post-
Employment Benefits other than Pension” pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions 
(“PBOP”) charges; and (iii) depreciation and/or amortization rates, the values shall be stated 
values to be used in the Formula Rate until changed pursuant to a Federal Power Act section 205 
or section 206 filing.  These stated-value inputs are specified in Attachment 9, respectively, of the 
Formula Rate Template. 
B.  Unpopulated Formula Rate line items:  With respect to line items in the Formula Rate that are not 
currently populated with non-zero numerical values because FERC policy requires prior 
authorization for recovery of the underlying costs or because, due to the nature of the associated 
functional activities, such costs are not considered part of MAIT’s transmission-related revenue 
requirement (but not line items that are zero values in a particular Rate Year for the sole reason 
that no such costs or revenues were incurred or revenues received or projected to be incurred or 
received during the Rate Year), such line items shall not be populated with non-zero values 
except as may be authorized following a Federal Power Act section 205 filing or required under 
Federal Power Act section 206.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-29 - TPA Annual Transmission Rates 
Effective Date: 2/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-419-000 - Page 1 
 
