[ATTACHMENT K - Part 11 of 12]

determines it is necessary to post modified auction results, it shall provide notification of its 
intent to do so,  along with a description detailing the cause and scope of the error, by no later 
than 5:00 p.m. of the second Business Day following the initial publication of prices for that 
auction.  The provided description will not contain information that is market sensitive or 
confidential.  Thereafter, the Office of the Interconnection must post the corrected prices by no 
later than 5:00 p.m. of the fourth calendar day following the initial publication of prices in the 
auction. Should any of the above deadlines pass without the associated action on the part of the 
Office of the Interconnection, the originally posted results will be considered final. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the deadlines set forth above shall not apply if the referenced 
auction results are under publicly noticed review by the FERC. 
 
7.1A.3 Products. 
 
 (i) The periods covered by long-term Financial Transmission Rights auctions shall be 
any single Planning Period within the three Planning Period term covered by the relevant 
auction.   
 
 (ii) Weekend on-peak, weekday on-peak, off-peak and 24-hour Financial 
Transmission Rights, as those products are described in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
7.3.4, shall be offered in long-term Financial Transmission Rights auctions; Financial 
Transmission Rights options shall not be offered.   
 
7.1A.4 Participation Eligibility. 
 
 (i) To participate in long-term Financial Transmission Rights auctions an entity shall 
be a PJM Member or a PJM Transmission Customer.  Eligible entities may submit bids or offers 
in long-term Financial Transmission Rights auctions, provided they own Financial Transmission 
Rights offered for sale.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.1A Long-Term Financial Tran 
Effective Date: 10/28/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2714-000 - Page 3 
7.1A.5 Specified Receipt and Delivery Points. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection will post a list of available receipt and delivery points for each 
long-term Financial Transmission Rights auction.  Eligible receipt and delivery points in long-
term Financial Transmission Rights auctions shall be limited to the posted available hubs, Zones, 
aggregates, generators, and Interface Pricing Points. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.2 Financial Transmission Ri 
Effective Date: 4/15/2020 - Docket #: ER20-1009-000 - Page 1 
7.2 Financial Transmission Rights Characteristics. 
 
7.2.1  Reconfiguration of Financial Transmission Rights. 
 
Through an appropriate linear programming model, the Office of the Interconnection shall 
reconfigure the Financial Transmission Rights offered or otherwise available for sale in any 
auction to maximize the value to the bidders of the Financial Transmission Rights sold, provided 
that any Financial Transmission Rights acquired at auction shall be simultaneously feasible in 
combination with those Financial Transmission Rights outstanding at the time of the auction and 
not sold in the auction.  The linear programming model shall, while respecting transmission 
constraints and the maximum MW quantities of the bids and offers, select the set of 
simultaneously feasible Financial Transmission Rights with the highest net total auction value as 
determined by the bids of buyers and taking into account the reservation prices of the sellers. 
 
7.2.2  Specified Receipt and Delivery Points. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection will post the list of available receipt and delivery points for 
each Financial Transmission Rights Auction before the start of the bidding window.  Auction 
bids for annual Financial Transmission Rights Obligations may specify as receipt and delivery 
points any combination of available hubs, Zones, aggregates, generators, and Interface Pricing 
Points. Auction bids for annual Financial Transmission Rights Options may specify as receipt 
and delivery points such combination of available hubs, Zones, aggregates, generators, and 
Interface Pricing Points as the Office of the Interconnection shall allow from time to time as set 
forth in PJM Manual 06: Financial Transmission Rights. Auction bids for Financial 
Transmission Rights submitted in the monthly auctions may specify as receipt and delivery 
points any combination of available hubs, Zones, aggregates, generators, and Interface Pricing 
Points for bids that cover any month beyond the next month.  Auction bids for Financial 
Transmission Rights submitted in the monthly auctions that cover the single calendar month 
period immediately following the month in which the monthly auction is conducted may specify 
any combination of available receipt and delivery buses represented in the State Estimator model 
for which the Office of the Interconnection calculates and posts Locational Marginal Prices.  
Auction bids may specify available receipt and delivery points from locations outside of the PJM 
Region to locations inside such region, from locations within the PJM Region to locations 
outside such region, or to and from locations within the PJM Region. 
 
7.2.3  Transmission Congestion Charges. 
 
Financial Transmission Rights shall entitle holders thereof to credits only for Day-ahead Energy 
Market Transmission Congestion Charges, and shall not confer a right to credits for payments 
arising from or relating to transmission congestion made to any entity other than PJMSettlement. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.3 Auction Procedures 
Effective Date: 10/28/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2714-000 - Page 1 
7.3 Auction Procedures. 
 
7.3.1 Role of the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
Financial Transmission Rights auctions shall be conducted by the Office of the Interconnection 
in accordance with standards and procedures set forth in the PJM Manuals, such standards and 
procedures to be consistent with the requirements of this Schedule.  PJMSettlement shall be the 
Counterparty to the purchases and sales of Financial Transmission Rights arising from such 
auctions, provided however, that PJMSettlement shall not be a contracting party to any 
subsequent bilateral transfers of Financial Transmission Rights between Market Participants.  
The conversion of an Auction Revenue Right to a Financial Transmission Right pursuant to this 
section 7 shall not constitute a purchase or sale transaction to which PJMSettlement is a 
contracting party.  Any Financial Transmission Rights auctions conducted to liquidate a 
defaulting Member’s Financial Transmission Rights portfolio shall be conducted by the Office of 
the Interconnection in accordance with the procedures set forth in section 7.3.9 below, and as 
may be further described in the PJM Manuals. 
 
7.3.2 Notice of Offer. 
 
A holder of a Financial Transmission Right wishing to offer the Financial Transmission Right for 
sale shall notify the Office of the Interconnection of any Financial Transmission Rights to be 
offered.  Each Financial Transmission Right sold in an auction shall, at the end of the period for 
which the Financial Transmission Rights were auctioned, revert to the offering holder or the 
entity to which the offering holder has transferred such Financial Transmission Right, subject to 
the term of the Financial Transmission Right itself and to the right of such holder or transferee to 
offer the Financial Transmission Right in the next or any subsequent auction during the term of 
the Financial Transmission Right. 
 
7.3.3 Pending Applications for Firm Service. 
 
(a) [Reserved.] 
 
(b) Financial Transmission Rights may be assigned to entities requesting Network 
Transmission Service or Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.2 (e), and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 5.2.2(e), only if such Financial Transmission Rights are simultaneously 
feasible with all outstanding Financial Transmission Rights, including Financial Transmission 
Rights effective for the then-current auction period.  If an assignment of Financial Transmission 
Rights pursuant to a pending application for Network Transmission Service or Firm Point-to-
Point Transmission Service cannot be completed prior to an auction, Financial Transmission 
Rights attributable to such transmission service shall not be assigned for the then-current auction 
period.  If a Financial Transmission Right cannot be assigned for this reason, the applicant may 
withdraw its application, or request that the Financial Transmission Right be assigned effective 
with the start of the next auction period. 
 
7.3.4 Weekend On-Peak, Weekday On-Peak, Off-Peak and 24-Hour Periods. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.3 Auction Procedures 
Effective Date: 10/28/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2714-000 - Page 2 
 
Weekend on-peak, weekday on-peak, off-peak and 24-hour Financial Transmission Rights will 
be offered in the annual, long-term, and monthly auctions. Weekend on-peak Financial 
Transmission Rights shall cover the periods from 7:00 a.m. up to the hour ending 11:00 p.m. on 
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays as defined in the PJM Manuals.  Weekday on-peak Financial 
Transmission Rights shall cover the periods from 7:00 a.m. up to the hour ending at 11:00 p.m. 
on Mondays through Fridays, except holidays as defined in the PJM Manuals.  Off-Peak 
Financial Transmission Rights shall cover the periods from 11:00 p.m. up to the hour ending 
7:00 a.m. on all days.  The 24-hour period shall cover the period from hour ending 1:00 a.m. to 
the hour ending 12:00 midnight on all days.  Each bid shall specify whether it is for a  weekend 
on-peak, weekday on-peak, off-peak, or 24-hour period. 
 
7.3.5 Offers and Bids. 
 
(a) Offers to sell and bids to purchase Financial Transmission Rights shall be submitted 
during the period set forth in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.1.2, and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.1.2, and shall be in the form specified by 
the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with the requirements set forth below. 
 
(b) Offers to sell shall identify the specific Financial Transmission Right, by term, megawatt 
quantity and receipt and delivery points, offered for sale.  An offer to sell a specified megawatt 
quantity of Financial Transmission Rights shall constitute an offer to sell a quantity of Financial 
Transmission Rights equal to or less than the specified quantity.  An offer to sell may not specify 
a minimum quantity being offered.  Each offer may specify a reservation price, below which the 
offeror does not wish to sell the Financial Transmission Right.  Offers submitted by entities 
holding rights to Financial Transmission Rights shall be subject to such reasonable standards for 
the verification of the rights of the offeror as may be established by the Office of the 
Interconnection.  Offers shall be subject to such reasonable standards for the creditworthiness of 
the offeror or for the posting of security for performance as the Office of the Interconnection 
shall establish. 
 
(c) Bids to purchase shall specify the term, megawatt quantity, price per megawatt, and 
receipt and delivery points of the Financial Transmission Right that the bidder wishes to 
purchase.  A bid to purchase a specified megawatt quantity of Financial Transmission Rights 
shall constitute a bid to purchase a quantity of Financial Transmission Rights equal to or less 
than the specified quantity.  A bid to purchase may not specify a minimum quantity that the 
bidder wishes to purchase.  A bid may specify receipt and delivery points in accordance with 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.2.2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.2.2, and may include Financial Transmission Rights for 
which the associated Transmission Congestion Credits may have negative values.  Bids shall be 
subject to such reasonable standards for the creditworthiness of the bidder or for the posting of 
security for performance as the Office of the Interconnection shall establish. 
 
(d) Bids and offers shall be specified to the nearest tenth of a megawatt and shall be greater 
than zero.  The Office of the Interconnection may require that a market participant shall not 
submit in excess of 5000 bids and offers for any single monthly auction, or for any single round 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.3 Auction Procedures 
Effective Date: 10/28/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2714-000 - Page 3 
of the annual auction, when the Office of the Interconnection determines that such limit is 
required to avoid or mitigate significant system performance problems related to bid/offer 
volume.  Notice of the need to impose such limit shall be provided prior to the start of the 
bidding period if possible.  Where such notice is provided after the start of the bidding period, 
market participants shall be required within one day to reduce their bids and offers for such 
auction below 5000, and the bidding period in such cases shall be extended by one day.  
 
(e) In the event of extraordinary circumstances affecting the submission of bids within the 
bidding period in which the Office of the Interconnection determines it necessary to extend the 
bidding period, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify Market Participants as soon as 
possible of the new bidding period ending day and time. 
 
7.3.6 Determination of Winning Bids and Clearing Price. 
 
(a) At the close of each bidding period, the Office of the Interconnection will create a base 
Financial Transmission Rights power flow model that includes all outstanding Financial 
Transmission Rights that have been approved and confirmed for any portion of the month for 
which the auction was conducted and that were not offered for sale in the auction.  The base 
Financial Transmission Rights model also will include estimated uncompensated parallel flows 
into each interface point of the PJM Region and estimated scheduled transmission outages. 
 
(b) In accordance with the requirements of Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.5, 
and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.5, and subject to all 
applicable transmission constraints and reliability requirements, the Office of the Interconnection 
shall determine the simultaneous feasibility of all outstanding Financial Transmission Rights not 
offered for sale in the auction and of all Financial Transmission Rights that could be awarded in 
the auction for which bids were submitted.  The winning bids shall be determined from an 
appropriate linear programming model that, while respecting transmission constraints and the 
maximum MW quantities of the bids and offers, selects the set of simultaneously feasible 
Financial Transmission Rights with the highest net total auction value as determined by the bids 
of buyers and taking into account the reservation prices of the sellers.  In the event that there are 
two or more identical bids for the selected Financial Transmission Rights and there are 
insufficient Financial Transmission Rights to accommodate all of the identical bids, then each 
such bidder will receive a pro rata share of the Financial Transmission Rights that can be 
awarded. 
 
(c) Financial Transmission Rights shall be sold at the market-clearing price for Financial 
Transmission Rights between specified pairs of receipt and delivery points, as determined by the 
bid value of the marginal Financial Transmission Right that could not be awarded because it 
would not be simultaneously feasible.  The linear programming model shall determine the 
clearing prices of all Financial Transmission Rights paths based on the bid value of the marginal 
Financial Transmission Rights, which are those Financial Transmission Rights with the highest 
bid values that could not be awarded fully because they were not simultaneously feasible, and 
based on the flow sensitivities of each Financial Transmission Rights path relative to the 
marginal Financial Transmission Rights paths flow sensitivities on the binding transmission 
constraints.  Financial Transmission Rights with a zero clearing price will only be awarded if 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.3 Auction Procedures 
Effective Date: 10/28/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2714-000 - Page 4 
there is a minimum of one binding constraint in the auction period for which the Financial 
Transmission Rights path sensitivity is non-zero.  Financial Transmission Right Options with a 
market-clearing price less than one dollar will not be awarded. 
 
7.3.7 Announcement of Winners and Prices. 
 
Within two (2) Business Days after the close of the bidding period for an annual Financial 
Transmission Rights auction round, and within five (5) Business Days after the close of the 
bidding period for a monthly Financial Transmission Rights auction, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall post the winning bidders, the megawatt quantity, the term and the receipt 
and delivery points for each Financial Transmission Right awarded in the auction and the price at 
which each Financial Transmission Right was awarded unless circumstances beyond PJM’s 
control prevent PJM from meeting the applicable deadline.  Under such circumstances, PJM will 
post the auction results at the earliest possible opportunity.  The Office of the Interconnection 
shall not disclose the price specified in any bid to purchase or the reservation price specified in 
any offer to sell.  If the Office of the Interconnection discovers an error in the results posted for a 
Financial Transmission Rights auction (or a given round of the annual Financial Transmission 
Rights auction), the Office of the Interconnection shall notify Market Participants of the error as 
soon as possible after it is found, but in no event later than 5:00 p.m. of the Business Day 
following the initial publication of the results of the auction or round of the annual auction.  
After this initial notification, if the Office of the Interconnection determines that it is necessary to 
post modified results, it shall provide notification of its intent to do so, together with all available 
supporting documentation, by no later than 5:00 p.m. of the second Business Day following the 
initial publication of the results of that auction or round of the annual auction.  Thereafter, the 
Office of the Interconnection must post any corrected results by no later than 5:00 p.m. of the 
fourth calendar day following the initial publication of the results of the auction or round of the 
annual auction. Should any of the above deadlines pass without the associated action on the part 
of the Office of the Interconnection, the originally posted results will be considered final. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the deadlines set forth above shall not apply if the referenced 
auction results are under publicly noticed review by the FERC. 
 
7.3.8 Auction Settlements. 
 
All buyers and sellers of Financial Transmission Rights between the same points of receipt and 
delivery shall pay PJMSettlement or be paid by PJMSettlement the market-clearing price, as 
determined in the auction, for such Financial Transmission Rights. 
 
For a Market Suspension where the suspension is greater than twenty-four (24) consecutive 
hours, which may span up to two Operating Days, and there are no Day-Ahead Prices available 
for the affected Operating Day, the Financial Transmission Right auction costs would be zero in 
proportion to the number of hours of the Market Suspension in the Operating Day. 
 
7.3.9 Addressing Defaulting Member’s Financial Transmission Rights. 
 
In the event a Member fails to meet creditworthiness requirements or make timely payments 
when due pursuant to the Operating Agreement or Tariff, the Office of the Interconnection shall, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.3 Auction Procedures 
Effective Date: 10/28/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2714-000 - Page 5 
as soon as practicable after declaring the Member to be in default as provided in Operating 
Agreement, section 15.1.5, use reasonable efforts to initiate within two applicable auctions the 
following procedures to settle, liquidate or otherwise resolve each Financial Transmission Rights 
position held by the defaulting Member: 
 
a) The Office of the Interconnection shall unilaterally terminate all of the defaulting 
Member’s rights with respect to forward Financial Transmission Rights positions as of the date 
of the Member’s default. 
 
b) As to each Financial Transmission Rights position held by the defaulting Member 
immediately prior to the termination of the defaulting Member’s rights under subsection (a) 
above, the Office of the Interconnection shall determine and execute an appropriate course of 
action for addressing such Financial Transmission Rights position, based on the specific 
circumstances of the default as determined by the Office of the Interconnection in exercise of its 
reasonable judgment, such as (1) liquidating the position by offering it for sale in an upcoming 
applicable Financial Transmission Rights auction, (2) liquidating the position by offering it for 
sale in an auction called and scheduled for the specific purpose of liquidating one or more 
positions held by the defaulting Member (“Special Auction”), (3) allowing the position to go to 
settlement, or (4) another course of action the Office of the Interconnection determines to be 
appropriate under the circumstances that is designed to minimize potential losses to PJM 
Members.  The Office of the Interconnection will provide reasonable advance notice to PJM 
Members of the approach or course of action it has determined to be appropriate prior to 
implementing that approach or course of action.  The Office of the Interconnection is not 
required to apply a single approach to the defaulting Member’s entire Financial Transmission 
Rights portfolio, and may determine that the appropriate course of action for addressing a 
defaulting Member’s portfolio includes a combination of the above approaches as applied to 
different positions within the defaulting Member’s overall Financial Transmission Rights 
portfolio. 
 
c) The Office of the Interconnection will seek to minimize the losses to PJM Members 
associated with settling, liquidating or otherwise resolving the defaulting Member’s Financial 
Transmission Rights portfolio and may base its determination in subsection (b) above on several 
factors, including but not limited to, the following: 
 
1)  the Office of the Interconnection’s assessment of which approach will 
provide the greatest degree of protection to the financial integrity of the 
PJM Markets;  
2) the size of the defaulting Member’s Financial Transmission Rights 
portfolio, both in absolute terms and relative to overall market volume; 
3) the term of the Financial Transmission Rights positions held by the 
defaulting Member as considered for a single position or on a portfolio 
basis; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.3 Auction Procedures 
Effective Date: 10/28/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2714-000 - Page 6 
4)  whether liquidation is feasible or not, and on what timeline, due to the 
cessation or curtailment of trading at PJM for all Financial Transmission 
Rights or a subset of Financial Transmission Rights positions;  
5) prevailing market conditions, such as but not limited to market liquidity 
and volatility; and 
6) timing of the default and the actions taken to address the default.   
d) Special Auctions.  The Office of the Interconnection shall administer each Special 
Auction provided for in subsection (b)(2) above according to the procedures set forth in the 
Tariff and PJM Manuals for FTR auctions to the extent appropriate in the Office of the 
Interconnection’s sole discretion, and may adopt special rules for each Special Auction to 
accommodate the unique circumstances underlying the particular default and particular Financial 
Transmission Rights positions being liquidated, with the terms and conditions of such auction 
being determined with the goal of facilitating a successful auction in light of the particular 
positions to be auctioned, the prevailing market conditions for such open positions (including the 
depth, scope, and nature of participation in such markets), and such other factors as the Office of 
the Interconnection determines appropriate, including those factors enumerated in subsection (c) 
above.  The Office of the Interconnection shall provide reasonable advance notice to FTR 
Participants of a Special Auction and the terms and conditions under which it will be conducted. 
 
e) All liquidations made pursuant to subsection (b) above shall be for the account of the 
defaulting Member (and all amounts owed PJM in respect thereof shall be included in amounts 
owed by the defaulting Member as part of its default). 
 
f) Notwithstanding subsections 7.3.9(a) and (b) above, the actual net charges or credits 
resulting from the defaulting Member’s Financial Transmission Rights positions for which 
PJMSettlement acted as counterparty as calculated through the normal settlement processes shall 
be included in calculating the Default Allocation Assessment charges as described in Operating 
Agreement, section 15.2.2.   
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction Re 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 1 
7.4 Allocation of Auction Revenues. 
 
7.4.1 Eligibility. 
 
(a) Annual auction revenues, net of payments to entities selling Financial Transmission 
Rights into the auction, shall be allocated among holders of Auction Revenue Rights in 
proportion to the Target Allocation of Auction Revenue Rights Credits for the holder. 
 
(b) Auction Revenue Rights Credits will be calculated based upon the clearing price results 
of the applicable Annual Financial Transmission Rights auction. 
 
(c) Monthly and Balance of Planning Period FTR auction revenues, net of payments to 
entities selling Financial Transmission Rights into the auction, shall be allocated according to the 
following priority schedule: 
 
(i) To stage 1 and 2 Auction Revenue Rights holders in accordance with 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.4.  If there are excess revenues 
remaining after a distribution made pursuant to this subsection, such revenues 
shall be distributed in accordance with subsection (c)(ii) of this section; 
 
(ii) To the Residual Auction Revenue Rights holders in proportion to, but not 
more than their Target Allocation as determined pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.3(b).  If there are excess revenues remaining 
after a distribution made pursuant to this subsection, such revenues shall be 
distributed in accordance with subsection (c)(iii) of this section; 
 
(iii) In accordance with Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.6. 
 
(d) Long-term FTR auction revenues associated with FTRs that cover individual Planning 
Periods shall be distributed in the Planning Period for which the FTR is effective.  Long-term 
FTR auction revenues associated with FTRs that cover multiple Planning Years shall be 
distributed equally across each Planning Period in the effective term of the FTR.  Long-term 
FTR auction revenue distributions within a Planning Period shall be in accordance with the 
following provisions: 
 
(i) Long-term FTR Auction revenues shall be distributed to Auction Revenue 
Rights holders in the effective Planning Period for the FTR.  The distribution shall 
be in proportion to the economic value of the ARRs when compared to the annual 
FTR auction clearing prices from each round proportionately.    
 
(ii) Long-term FTR auction revenues remaining after distributions made 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.1(d)(ii) shall be 
distributed pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.6 of 
Schedule 1 of this Agreement.  
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction Re 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 2 
7.4.2 Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
(a) Prior to the end of each PJM Planning Period an annual allocation of Auction Revenue 
Rights for the next PJM Planning Period shall be performed using a two stage allocation process.  
Stage 1 shall consist of stages 1A and 1B, which shall allocate ten year and annual Auction 
Revenue Rights, respectively, and stage 2 shall allocate annual Auction Revenue Rights. The 
Auction Revenue Rights allocation process shall be performed in accordance with Sections 7.4 
and 7.5 hereof and the PJM Manuals.  
 
With respect to the allocation of Auction Revenue Rights, if the Office of the Interconnection 
discovers a potential error in the allocation, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify Market 
Participants as soon as possible after it is found, but in no event later than 5:00 p.m. of the 
Business Day following the initial publication of allocation results.  After this initial notification, 
if the Office of the Interconnection determines that it is necessary to post modified allocation 
results, it shall provide notification of its intent to do so,  along with a description detailing the 
cause and scope of the error, by no later than 5:00 p.m. of the second Business Day following 
the publication of the initial allocation.  The provided description will not contain information 
that is market sensitive or confidential.  Thereafter, the Office of the Interconnection must post 
any corrected allocation results by no later than 5:00 p.m. of the fourth calendar day following 
the initial publication. Should any of the above deadlines pass without the associated action on 
the part of the Office of the Interconnection, the originally posted results will be considered final. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the deadlines set forth above shall not apply if the referenced 
allocation is under publicly noticed review by the FERC. 
 
(b) In stage 1A of the allocation process, each Network Service User may request Auction 
Revenue Rights for a term covering ten consecutive PJM Planning Periods beginning with the 
immediately ensuing PJM Planning Period from a subset of the Active Historical Generation 
Resources or Qualified Replacement Resources , and each Qualifying Transmission Customer 
(as defined in subsection (f) of this section) may request Auction Revenue Rights based on the 
megawatts of firm service provided between the receipt and delivery points as to which the 
Transmission Customer had Point-to-Point Transmission Service during the historical reference 
year.  Active Historical Generation Resources shall mean those historical resources that were 
designated to be delivered to load based on the historical reference year, and which have not 
since been deactivated and, further, only up to the current installed capacity value of such 
resource as of the annual allocation of ARRs for the target PJM Planning Period.  Qualified 
Replacement Resources shall mean those resources the Office of the Interconnection designates 
for the ensuing Planning Period to replace historical resources that no longer qualify as Active 
Historical Generation Resources and that maximize the economic value of ARRs while 
maintaining Simultaneous Feasibility, as further described in the PJM Manuals.   
 
Prior to the stage 1A of the allocation process, the Office of the Interconnection shall determine, 
for each Zone, the amount of megawatts of ARRs available from Active Historical Generation 
Resources in that Zone and the amount of megawatts required from Qualified Replacement 
Resources.  The Office of the Interconnection shall designate Qualified Replacement Resources 
as follows, and as further described in the PJM Manuals.  Qualified Replacement Resources shall 
be either from a (1) capacity resource that has been included in the rate base of a specific Load 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction Re 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 3 
Serving Entity in a particular Zone, using criteria for rate-based as specified in sections 7.6 and 
7.7 hereof concerning New Stage 1 Resources and Alternative Stage 1 Resources; or (2) from a 
non-rate-based capacity resource.   
 
Prior to the end of each PJM Planning Period the Office of the Interconnection will determine 
which Stage 1 Resources are no longer viable for the next PJM Planning Period and then will 
replace such source points with Qualified Replacement Resources (i.e., Capacity Resources that 
pass the Simultaneous Feasibility Test and which are economic).  The Office of Interconnection 
will determine the replacement source points as follows. First, the Office of the Interconnection 
will compile a list of all Capacity Resources that are operational as of the beginning of the next 
Planning Period, that are not currently designated as source points and will post such list on the 
PJM website prior to finalizing the Stage 1 eligible resource list for each transmission zone for 
review by Market Participants. In the first instance, all such resources will be considered to be 
non-rate-based. Market Participants will be asked to review the posted resource list and provide 
evidence to the Office of the Interconnection, if any, of the posted resources that shall be 
classified as rate-based resources. Once the replacement resource list along with the resource 
status is finalized after any input from Market Participants, the Office of the Interconnection will 
create two categories of resources for each Stage 1 transmission zone based on economic order: 
one for rate-based; and a second for non-rate-based resources. When determining economic 
order, the Office of the Interconnection will utilize historical source and sink Day-ahead Energy 
Market Congestion Locational Marginal Prices (“CLMPs”). Historical value will be based on the 
previous three years’ CLMP sink versus CLMP source differences weighted by 50% for the 
previous calendar year, weighted by 30% for the year prior and weighted by 20% for the year 
prior. To the extent replacement resources do not have three years’ worth historical data, 
weighting will be performed either 50/50% in the case of two years or 100% in the case of one 
year worth of historical data.  If a full year of historical data is not available, PJM will utilize the 
CLMP from the closest electrically equivalent location to compose an entire year of historical 
data.  Once the economic order is established for each Stage 1 zonal rate-based and non-rate-
based generator categories, the Office of the Interconnection will begin to replace Stage 1 zonal 
retirements with the Qualified Replacement Resources by first utilizing rate-based resources in 
the economic order while respecting transmission limitations. And once the rate-based resource 
determination is concluded, the Office of the Interconnection will then utilize non-rate-based 
resources, in economic order, while respecting transmission limitations as described previously. 
 
The historical reference year for all Zones shall be 1998, except that the historical reference year 
shall be:  2002 for the Allegheny Power and Rockland Electric Zones; 2004 for the AEP East, 
The Dayton Power & Light Company and Commonwealth Edison Company Zones; 2005 for the 
Virginia Electric and Power Company and Duquesne Light Company Zones; 2011 for the ATSI 
Zone; 2012 for the DEOK Zone; 2013 for the EKPC Zone; 2018 for the OVEC Zone; and the 
Office of the Interconnection shall specify a historical reference year for a new PJM zone 
corresponding to the year that the zone is integrated into the PJM Interchange Energy Market.  
For stage 1, the Office of the Interconnection shall determine a set of eligible historical 
generation resources for each Zone based on the historical reference year and assign a pro rata 
amount of megawatt capability from each historical generation resource to each Network Service 
User in the Zone based on its proportion of peak load in the Zone.  Auction Revenue Rights shall 
be allocated to each Network Service User in a Zone from each historical generation resource in 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction Re 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 4 
a number of megawatts equal to or less than the amount of the historical generation resource that 
has been assigned to the Network Service User.  Each Auction Revenue Right allocated to a 
Network Service User shall be to the Energy Settlement Area of such Network Service User as 
described in Section 31.7 of Part III of the Tariff, unless the Network Service User’s Energy 
Settlement Area represents the Residual Metered Load of an electric distribution company’s fully 
metered franchise area(s) or service territory(ies) and the Network Service User elects to have its 
Auction Revenue Rights allocated at the aggregate load buses in a Zone.  In stage 1A of the 
allocation process, the sum of each Network Service User’s allocated Auction Revenue Rights 
for a Zone must be equal to or less than sixty percent (60%) of the Network Service User’s 
proportion of peak load in the Zone.  The sum of each Network Service User’s Auction Revenue 
Rights for Non-Zone Network Load must be equal to or less than fifty percent (50%) of the 
Network Service User’s transmission responsibility for Non-Zone Network Load as determined 
under Section 34.1 of the Tariff.  The sum of each Qualifying Transmission Customer’s Auction 
Revenue Rights must be equal to or less than fifty percent (50%) of the megawatts of firm 
service provided between the receipt and delivery points as to which the Transmission Customer 
had Point-to-Point Transmission Service during the historical reference year.  If stage 1A 
Auction Revenue Rights are adversely affected by any new or revised statute, regulation or rule 
issued by an entity with jurisdiction over the Office of the Interconnection, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall, to the greatest extent practicable, and consistent with any such statute, 
regulation or rule change, preserve the priority of the stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights for a 
minimum period covering the ten (10) consecutive PJM Planning Periods (“Stage 1A Transition 
Period”) immediately following the implementation of any such changes, provided that the terms 
of all stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights in effect at the time the Office of the Interconnection 
implements the Stage 1A Transition Period shall be reduced by one PJM Planning Period during 
each annual stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights allocation performed during the Stage 1A 
Transition Period so that all stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights that were effective at the start of 
the Stage 1A Transition Period expire at the end of that period. 
 
(c) In stage 1B of the allocation process each Network Service User may request Auction 
Revenue Rights from the subset of the resources determined pursuant to Section 7.4.2(b) that 
were not allocated in stage 1A of the allocation process, and each Qualifying Transmission 
Customer may request Auction Revenue Rights based on the megawatts of firm service 
determined pursuant to Section 7.4.2(b) that were not allocated in stage 1A of the allocation 
process. In stage 1B of the allocation process, the sum of each Network Service User’s allocation 
Auction Revenue Rights request for a Zone must be equal to or less than the difference between 
the Network Service User’s peak load for that Zone as determined pursuant to Section 34.1 of 
the Tariff and the sum of its Auction Revenue Rights Allocation from stage 1A of the allocation 
process for that Zone.  The sum of each Network Service User’s Auction Revenue Rights for 
Non-Zone Network Load must be equal to or less than the difference between one hundred 
percent (100%) of the Network Service User’s transmission responsibility for Non-Zone 
Network Load as determined pursuant to Section 7.4.2(b) and the sum of its Auction Revenue 
Rights Allocation from stage 1A of the allocation process for that Zone.  The sum of each 
Qualifying Transmission Customer’s Auction Revenue Rights must be equal to or less than the 
difference between one hundred percent (100%) of the megawatts of firm service as determined 
pursuant to Section 7.4.2(b) and the sum of its Auction Revenue Rights Allocation from stage 
1A of the allocation process for that Zone.  In stage 1B, valid Auction Revenue Right source 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction Re 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 5 
buses include Active Historical Resources, Qualified Replacement Resources, Zones, hubs and 
external Interface Pricing Points. 
 
(d) In stage 2 of the allocation process, the Office of the Interconnection shall conduct an 
iterative allocation process that consists of two rounds with up to one half of the remaining 
system Auction Revenue Rights capability allocated in each round.  Each round of this allocation 
process will be conducted sequentially with Network Service Users and Transmission Customers 
being given the opportunity to view results of each allocation round prior to submission of 
Auction Revenue Right requests into the subsequent round.  In each round, each Network 
Service User shall designate a subset of buses from which Auction Revenue Rights will source 
and sink.  Valid Auction Revenue Rights source buses include only Zones, generators, hubs and 
external Interface Pricing Points.  Valid Auction Revenue Rights sink buses include only Zones, 
generators, hubs and external Interface Pricing Points.  The Network Service User shall specify 
the amount of Auction Revenue Rights requested from each source bus to each sink bus. Prior to 
the 2015/2016 Planning Period, each Auction Revenue Right shall sink to the  Energy Settlement 
Area of the Network Service User as described in Section 31.7 of Part III of the Tariff.  
Commencing with the 2015/2016 Planning Period, each Auction Revenue Right shall sink to the 
Energy Settlement Area of the Network Service User as described in Section 31.7 of Part III of 
the Tariff, unless the Network Service User’s Energy Settlement Area represents the Residual 
Metered Load of an electric distribution company’s fully metered franchise area(s) or service 
territory(ies) and the Network Service User elects to have its Auction Revenue Rights sink at the 
aggregate load buses in a Zone.  The sum of each Network Service User’s Auction Revenue 
Rights requests in each stage 2 allocation round for each Zone must be equal to or less than one 
half of the difference between the Network Service User’s peak load for that Zone as determined 
pursuant to Section 7.4.2(b) and the sum of its Auction Revenue Right Allocation from stages 
1A and 1B of the allocation process for that Zone.  The stage 2 allocation to Transmission 
Customers shall be as set forth in subsection (f). 
 
(e) On a daily basis within the annual Financial Transmission Rights auction period, a 
proportionate share of Network Service User’s Auction Revenue Rights for each Zone are 
reallocated as Network Load changes from one Network Service User to another within that 
Zone. 
 
(f) A Qualifying Transmission Customer shall be any customer with an agreement for Long-
Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service, used to deliver energy from a designated 
Network Resource located either outside or within the PJM Region to load located either outside 
or within the PJM Region, and that was confirmed and in effect during the historical reference 
year for the Zone in which the resource is located.  Such an agreement shall allow the Qualifying 
Transmission Customer to participate in the first stage of the allocation, but only if such 
agreement has remained in effect continuously following the historical reference year and is to 
continue in effect for the period addressed by the allocation, either by its term or by renewal or 
rollover.  The megawatts of Auction Revenue Rights the Qualifying Transmission Customer may 
request in the first stage of the allocation may not exceed the lesser of: (i) the megawatts of firm 
service between the designated Network Resource and the load delivery point (or applicable 
point at the border of the PJM Region for load located outside such region) under contract during 
the historical reference year; and (ii) the megawatts of firm service presently under contract 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction Re 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 6 
between such historical reference year receipt and delivery points.  A Qualifying Transmission 
Customer may request Auction Revenue Rights in either or both of stage 1 or 2 of the allocation 
without regard to whether such customer is subject to a charge for Firm Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service under Section 1 of Schedule 7 of the PJM Tariff (“Base Transmission 
Charge”).  A Transmission Customer that is not a Qualifying Transmission Customer may 
request Auction Revenue Rights in stage 2 of the allocation process, but only if it is subject to a 
Base Transmission Charge.  The Auction Revenue Rights that such a Transmission Customer 
may request in each round of stage 2 of the allocation process must be equal to or less than one 
half of the number of megawatts equal to the megawatts of firm service being provided between 
the receipt and delivery points as to which the Transmission Customer currently has Firm Point-
to-Point Transmission Service.  The source point of the Auction Revenue Rights must be the 
designated source point that is specified in the Transmission Service request and the sink point of 
the Auction Revenue Rights must be the designated sink point that is specified in the 
Transmission Service request.  A Qualifying Transmission Customer may request Auction 
Revenue Rights in each round of stage 2 of the allocation process in a number of megawatts 
equal to or less than one half of the difference between the number of megawatts of firm service 
being provided between the receipt and delivery points as to which the Transmission Customer 
currently has Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service and its Auction Revenue Right 
Allocation from stage 1 of the allocation process.   
 
(g) PJM Transmission Customers that serve load in the Midwest ISO may participate in stage 
1 of the allocation to the extent permitted by, and in accordance with, this Section 7.4.2 and other 
applicable provisions of this Schedule 1.  For service from non-historic sources, these customers 
may participate in stage 2, but in no event can they receive an allocation of ARRs/FTRs from 
PJM greater than their firm service to loads in MISO. 
 
(h) Subject to subsection (i) of this section, all Auction Revenue Rights must be 
simultaneously feasible. If all Auction Revenue Right requests made during the annual allocation 
process are not feasible then Auction Revenue Rights are prorated and allocated in proportion to 
the megawatt level requested and in inverse proportion to the effect on the binding constraints. 
 
(i) If any Auction Revenue Right requests made during stage 1A of the annual allocation 
process are not feasible due to system conditions, then PJM shall increase the capability limits of 
the binding constraints that would have rendered the Auction Revenue Rights infeasible to the 
extent necessary in order to allocate such Auction Revenue Rights without their being infeasible 
unless such infeasibility is caused by extraordinary circumstances.  Such increased limits shall be 
included in all rounds of the annual allocation and auction processes and in subsequent modeling 
during the Planning Year to support any incremental allocations of Auction Revenue Rights and 
monthly and balance of the Planning Period Financial Transmission Rights auctions unless and 
to the extent those system conditions that contributed to infeasibility in the annual process are 
not extant for the time period subject to the subsequent modeling, such as would be the case, for 
example, if transmission facilities are returned to service during the Planning Year.  In these 
cases, any increase in the capability limits taken under this subsection (i) during the annual 
process will be removed from subsequent modeling to support any incremental allocations of 
Auction Revenue Rights and monthly and balance of the Planning Period Financial Transmission 
Rights auctions.  In addition, PJM may remove or lower the increased capability limits, if 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction Re 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 7 
feasible, during subsequent FTR Auctions if the removal or lowering of the increased capability 
limits does not impact Auction Revenue Rights funding and net auction revenues are positive. 
 
For the purposes of this subsection (i), extraordinary circumstances shall mean an event of force 
majeure that reduces the capability of existing or planned transmission facilities and such 
reduction in capability is the cause of the infeasibility of such Auction Revenue Rights.  
Extraordinary circumstances do not include those system conditions and assumptions modeled in 
simultaneous feasibility analyses conducted pursuant to section 7.5 of Schedule 1 of this 
Agreement.  If PJM allocates stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights as a result of this subsection (i) 
that would not otherwise have been feasible, then PJM shall notify Members and post on its web 
site (a) the aggregate megawatt quantities, by sources and sinks, of such Auction Revenue Rights 
and (b) any increases in capability limits used to allocate such Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
(j) Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service customers that are not Qualifying 
Transmission Customers and Network Service Users serving Non-Zone Network Load may 
participate in stage 1 of the annual allocation of Auction Revenue Rights pursuant to Section 
7.4.2(a)-(c) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement, subject to the following conditions: 
 
i. The relevant Transmission Service shall be used to deliver energy from a 
designated Network Resource located either outside or within the PJM 
Region to load located outside the PJM Region.  
 
ii. To be eligible to participate in stage 1A of the annual Auction Revenue 
Rights allocation: 1) the relevant Transmission Service shall remain in 
effect for the stage 1A period addressed by the allocation; and 2) the 
control area in which the external load is located has similar rules for load 
external to the relevant control area. 
 
iii. Source points for stage 1 requests authorized pursuant to this subsection 
7.4.2(j) shall be limited to: 1) generation resources owned by the LSE 
serving the load located outside the PJM Region; or 2) generation 
resources subject to a bona fide firm energy and capacity supply contract 
executed by the LSE to meet its load obligations, provided that such 
contract remains in force and effect for a minimum term of ten (10) years 
from the first effective Planning Period that follows the initial stage 1 
request. 
 
iv. For Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service customers 
requesting stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights pursuant to this subsection 
7.4.2(j) , the generation resource(s) designated as source points may 
include any portion of the generating capacity of such resource(s) that is 
not, at the time of the request, already identified as a Capacity Resource. 
 
v. For Network Service Users requesting stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights 
pursuant to this subsection 7.4.2(j), at the time of the request, the 
generation resource(s) designated as source points must either be 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction Re 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 8 
committed into PJM’s RPM market or be designated as part of the entity’s 
FRR Capacity Plan for the purpose of serving the capacity requirement of 
the external load.    
 
vi. All stage 1 source point requests made pursuant to this subsection 7.4.2(j) 
shall not increase the megawatt flow on facilities binding in the relevant 
annual Auction Revenue Rights allocation or in future stage 1A 
allocations and shall not cause megawatt flow to exceed applicable ratings 
on any other facilities in either set of conditions in the simultaneous 
feasibility test prescribed in subsection (vii) of this subsection 7.4.2(j).  
 
vii. To ensure the conditions of subsection (vi) of this subsection 7.4.2(j) are 
met, a simultaneous feasibility test shall be conducted: 1) based on next 
allocation year with all existing stage 1 and stage 2 Auction Revenue 
Rights modeled as fixed injection-withdrawal pairs; and 2) based on 10 
year allocation model with all eligible stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights 
for each year including base load growth for each year. 
 
viii. Requests for stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights made pursuant to this 
subsection 7.4.2(j) that are received by PJM by November 1st of a 
Planning Period shall be processed for the next annual Auction Revenue 
Rights  allocation. Requests received after November 1st shall not be 
considered for the upcoming annual Auction Revenue Rights allocation. If 
all requests are not simultaneously feasible then requests will be awarded 
on a pro-rata basis.  
 
ix. Requests for new or alternate stage 1 resources made by Network Service 
Users and external LSEs that are received by November 1st shall be 
evaluated at the same time. If all requests are not simultaneously feasible 
then requests will be awarded on a pro-rata basis. 
 
x. Stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights source points that qualify pursuant to this 
subsection 7.4.2(j) shall be eligible as stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights 
source points in subsequent annual Auction Revenue Rights allocations. 
 
xi. Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service customers 
requesting stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights pursuant to this subsection 
7.4.2(j) may request Auction Revenue Rights megawatts up to the lesser 
of: 1) the customer’s Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission service 
contract megawatt amount; or 2) the customer’s Firm Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights.  
 
xii. Network Service Users requesting stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights 
pursuant to this subsection 7.4.2(j) may request Auction Revenue Rights 
megawatts up to the lesser of: 1) the customer’s network service peak 
load; or 2) the customer’s Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction Re 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 9 
 
xiii. Stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights requests made pursuant to this 
subsection 7.4.2(j) shall not exceed 50% of the maximum allowed 
megawatts authorized by subsections (xi) and (xii) of this subsection 
7.4.2(j).   
 
xiv. Stage 1B Auction Revenue Rights requests made pursuant to this 
subsection 7.4.2(j) shall not exceed the difference between the maximum 
allowed megawatts authorized by subsections (xi) and (xii) of this 
subsection 7.4.2(j) and the Auction Revenue Rights megawatts granted in 
stage 1A.  
 
xv. In each round of Stage 2 of an annual allocation of Auction Revenue 
Rights, megawatt requests made pursuant to this subsection 7.4.2(j) shall 
be equal to or less than one half of the difference between the maximum 
allowed megawatts authorized by paragraphs (xi) and (xii) of this 
subsection 7.4.2(j) and the Auction Revenue Rights megawatt amount 
allocated in stage 1.  
 
xvi. Stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights sources established pursuant to this 
subsection 7.4.2(j) and the associated Auction Revenue Rights megawatt 
amount may be replaced with an alternate resource pursuant to the process 
established in Section 7.7 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement. 
 
(k)  PJM Transmission Customers taking firm transmission service for the delivery of Direct 
Charging Energy to Energy Storage Resources or to Open-Loop Hybrid Resources are not 
eligible for allocation of Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
 
7.4.2a Bilateral Transfers of Auction Revenue Rights 
 
(a) Market Participants may enter into bilateral agreements to transfer Auction Revenue 
Rights or the right to receive an allocation of Auction Revenue Rights to a third party.  Such 
bilateral transfers shall be reported to the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with this 
Schedule and pursuant to the LLC’s rules related to its FTR reporting tools.  
 
(b) For purposes of clarity, with respect to all bilateral transfers of Auction Revenue Rights 
or the right to receive an allocation of Auction Revenue Rights, the rights and obligations to the 
Auction Revenue Rights or the right to receive an allocation of Auction Revenue Rights that are 
the subject of such a bilateral transfer shall pass to the buyer under the bilateral contract subject 
to the provisions of this Schedule.  In no event, shall the purchase and sale of an Auction 
Revenue Right or the right to receive an allocation of Auction Revenue Rights pursuant to a 
bilateral transfer constitute a transaction with PJMSettlement or a transaction in any auction 
under this Schedule.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction Re 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 10 
(c) Consent of the Office of the Interconnection shall be required for a seller to transfer to a 
buyer any obligations associated with the Auction Revenue Rights or the right to receive an 
allocation of Auction Revenue Rights.  Such consent shall be based upon the Office of the 
Interconnection’s assessment of the buyer’s ability to perform the obligations transferred in the 
bilateral contract.  If consent for a transfer is not provided by the Office of the Interconnection, 
the title to the Auction Revenue Rights or the right to receive an allocation of Auction Revenue 
Rights shall not transfer to the third party and the holder of the Auction Revenue Rights or the 
right to receive an allocation of Auction Revenue Rights shall continue to receive all rights 
attributable to the Auction Revenue Rights or the right to receive an allocation of Auction 
Revenue Rights and remain subject to all credit requirements and obligations associated with the 
Auction Revenue Rights or the right to receive an allocation of Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
(d) A seller under such a bilateral contract shall guarantee and indemnify the Office of the 
Interconnection, PJMSettlement, and the Members for the buyer’s obligation to pay any charges 
associated with the Auction Revenue Right and for which payment is not made to 
PJMSettlement by the buyer under such a bilateral transfer.   
 
(e) All payments and related charges associated with such a bilateral contract shall be 
arranged between the parties to such bilateral contract and shall not be billed or settled by 
PJMSettlement or the Office of the Interconnection.  The LLC, PJMSettlement, and the 
Members will not assume financial responsibility for the failure of a party to perform obligations 
owed to the other party under such a bilateral contract reported to the Office of the 
Interconnection under this Schedule.   
 
(f) All claims regarding a default of a buyer to a seller under such a bilateral contract shall 
be resolved solely between the buyer and the seller.  
 
7.4.3 Target Allocation of Auction Revenue Right Credits. 
 
(a) A Target Allocation of Auction Revenue Right Credits for each entity holding an Auction 
Revenue Right shall be determined for each Auction Revenue Right.  After each round of the 
annual Financial Transmission Right auction, each Auction Revenue Right shall be divided by 
four and multiplied by the price differences for the receipt and delivery points associated with 
the Auction Revenue Right, calculated as the Locational Marginal Price at the delivery points(s) 
minus the Locational Marginal Price at the receipt point(s), where the price for the receipt and 
delivery point is determined by the clearing prices of each round of the annual Financial 
Transmission Right auction.  The daily total Target Allocation for an entity holding the Auction 
Revenue Rights shall be the sum of the daily Target Allocations associated with all of the 
entity’s Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
(b) A Target Allocation of residual Auction Revenue Rights Credits for each entity allocated 
Residual Auction Revenue Rights pursuant to section 7.9 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement shall 
be determined on a monthly basis for each month in a Planning Period beginning with the month 
the Residual Auction Revenue Right(s) becomes effective through the end of the relevant 
Planning Period.  The Target Allocation for Residual Auction Revenue Rights Credits shall be 
equal to megawatt amount of the Residual Auction Revenue Rights multiplied by the LMP 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.4 Allocation of Auction Re 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-1420-000 - Page 11 
differential between the source and sink nodes of the corresponding FTR obligation in each 
prompt-month FTR auction that occurs from the effective date of the Residual Auction Revenue 
Rights through the end of the relevant Planning Period. 
 
7.4.4 Calculation of Auction Revenue Right Credits. 
 
(a) Each day, the total of all the daily Target Allocations determined as specified above in 
Section 7.4.3 plus any additional Auction Revenue Rights Target Allocations applicable for that 
day shall be compared to the total revenues of all applicable monthly Financial Transmission 
Rights auction(s) (divided by the number of days in the month) plus the total revenues of the 
annual Financial Transmission Rights auction (divided by the number of days in the Planning 
Period). If the total of the Target Allocations is less than the total auction revenues, the Auction 
Revenue Right Credit for each entity holding an Auction Revenue Right shall be equal to its 
Target Allocation.  All remaining funds shall be distributed as Excess Congestion Charges 
pursuant to Section 5.2.6. 
 
(b) If the total of the Target Allocations is greater than the total auction revenues, each holder 
of Auction Revenue Rights shall be assigned a share of the total auction revenues in proportion 
to its Auction Revenue Rights Target Allocations for Auction Revenue Rights which have a 
positive Target Allocation value. Auction Revenue Rights which have a negative Target 
Allocation value are assigned the full Target Allocation value as a negative Auction Revenue 
Right Credit. 
 
(c) At the end of a Planning Period, if all Auction Revenue Right holders did not receive 
Auction Revenue Right Credits equal to their Target Allocations, PJMSettlement shall assess a 
charge equal to the difference between the Auction Revenue Right Credit Target Allocations for 
all revenue deficient Auction Revenue Rights and the actual Auction Revenue Right Credits 
allocated to those Auction Revenue Right holders.  The aggregate charge for a Planning Period 
assessed pursuant to this section, if any, shall be added to the aggregate charge for a Planning 
Period assessed pursuant to section 5.2.5(c) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement and collected 
pursuant to section 5.2.5(c) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement and distributed to the Auction 
Revenue Right holders that did not receive Auction Revenue Right Credits equal to their Target 
Allocation. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.5 Simultaneous Feasibility 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 1 
7.5 Simultaneous Feasibility. 
 
 (a) The Office of the Interconnection shall make the simultaneous feasibility 
determinations specified herein using appropriate powerflow models of contingency-constrained 
dispatch.  Simultaneous feasibility determinations shall take into account outages of both 
individual generation units and transmission facilities and shall be based on reasonable 
assumptions about the configuration and availability of transmission capability during the period 
covered by the auction that are not inconsistent with the determination of the deliverability of 
Generation Capacity Resources under the Reliability Assurance Agreement.  The goal of the 
simultaneous feasibility determination shall be to ensure that there are sufficient revenues from 
Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges to satisfy all Financial 
Transmission Rights Obligations for the auction period under expected conditions and to ensure 
that there are sufficient revenues from the annual Financial Transmission Right Auction to 
satisfy all Auction Revenue Rights Obligations.  To ensure revenue sufficiency, the powerflow 
model used for simultaneous feasibility determinations is a markets model that uses flows caused 
by sources and sinks of requested Auction Revenue Rights (including Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights) or Financial Transmission Rights, as well as market limits (as described in 
section (b) below) to determine the capability available to accommodate financial rights that are 
simultaneously feasible.  The markets model differs from both an operations model, which uses 
physical generators or load, and a planning model, which uses expected physical generators or 
load. 
 
(b) Simultaneous feasibility determinations pursuant to this section utilize applicable 
market limits.  Market limits may differ from physical facility ratings to reflect expected market 
capability and to align expected Financial Transmission Rights total target allocations with 
expected congestion, and to ensure sufficient revenues are collected from the Day-ahead Energy 
Market Transmission Congestion Charges to satisfy all Financial Transmission Rights 
obligations.  To account for historical market impacts, market limits may reflect (without 
limitation) such factors as requested and awarded Auction Revenue Rights, Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights and Financial Transmission Rights, uncompensated powerflow, external 
flowgate entitlements or limits, transfer limits of the type appropriate for reactive interfaces, 
operational considerations, voltage limitations and/or closed loop interfaces.  Market limits also 
are based on reasonable assumptions about the configuration and availability of transmission 
capability during the study period, including (without limitation) scheduled or expected 
transmission outages.  The market limits are applied to facilities modeled in an Auction Revenue 
Rights allocation, Financial Transmission Rights auction or Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
study and may result in operative constraints that establish different limits than physical (e.g., 
thermal or voltage) ratings.  As used here, an operative constraint results when a market limit 
binds in the powerflow model and constrains the grant of Auction Revenue Rights, Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights or Financial Transmission Rights.  
 
(c) On an annual basis the Office of the Interconnection shall conduct a simultaneous 
feasibility test for stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights, which shall assess the simultaneous 
feasibility for each year remaining in the term of the right(s).  This test shall be based on the 
Auction Revenue Rights required to meet sixty percent (60%) of peak load in each Zone 
requirements.  The Office of the Interconnection shall apply a zonal load growth rate to the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.5 Simultaneous Feasibility 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 2 
simultaneous feasibility test for the ten year term of the stage 1A Auction Revenue Rights to 
reflect load growth as estimated by the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
 (d) Simultaneous feasibility tests for new stage 1 resource requests made pursuant to 
Section 7.6 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement shall ensure that the request for a new base resource 
does not increase the megawatt flow on facilities binding in the current Auction Revenue Rights 
allocation or in future stage 1A allocations and does not cause megawatt flow to exceed 
applicable ratings on any other facilities in either set of conditions.  The most limiting set of 
conditions will be used as the limiting condition in these evaluations.  A simultaneous feasibility 
test conducted pursuant to this section by the Office of the Interconnection shall assess the 
simultaneous feasibility under the following conditions: 
 
(i) Based on next allocation year with all existing stage 1 and stage 2 Auction 
Revenue Rights modeled as fixed injection-withdrawal pairs.  
 
(ii) Based on 10 year allocation model with all eligible stage 1A Auction 
Revenue Rights for each year including base load growth for each year. 
 
 (e) Simultaneous feasibility tests for Incremental Auction Revenue Rights requested 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.8 and Tariff, Part VI, Subpart C, section 
231 shall ensure that the request for the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights does not increase 
the megawatt flow on facilities binding in the current Auction Revenue Rights allocation or in 
future stage 1A allocations and does not cause megawatt flow to exceed applicable ratings on 
any other facilities in either set of conditions.  The most limiting set of conditions will be used as 
the limiting conditions in these evaluations.  A simultaneous feasibility test conducted pursuant 
to this section by the Office of the Interconnection shall assess the simultaneous feasibility using 
the following models derived from the markets model: 
 
(i) An Incremental Auction Revenue Rights model that is based on the 
existing allocation year with transmission outages removed (i.e., the 
transmission assumed out of service in the base markets model is assumed 
to be in service).  All existing stage 1 and stage 2 Auction Revenue Rights 
are modeled as fixed injection withdrawal pairs. 
 
(ii) A 10 year allocation model with all eligible stage 1A Auction Revenue 
Rights for each year including base load growth for each year. 
 
(f) Simultaneous feasibility tests pursuant to section (e) above utilize a transfer 
analysis to determine the flow impacts.  The transfer analysis is performed by injecting at the 
source and withdrawing at the sink and measuring the impacts on the facilities.  Additional 
details are provided in the PJM Manuals and related explanatory materials posted on the PJM 
website such as the PJM Whitepaper entitled “PJM Incremental Auction Revenue Rights Model 
Development and Analysis.” 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 
TRANSMISSION --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 7.6 New Stage 1 Resources 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 1 
7.6 New Stage 1 Resources. 
 
A Network Service User may request the addition of new stage 1 resources to the stage 1 
resource list if the capacity of the Stage 1 generation resources for a Zone determined pursuant to 
Section 7.4.2(b) is less than sixty percent (60%) of the of peak load in the Zone.  Requests made 
pursuant to this section shall be subject to Section 7.5(c) of Schedule 1 of this Agreement and 
shall be limited to generation resources either owned by the requesting party or those subject to a 
bona fide firm energy and capacity supply contracts where such contract is executed by the 
requesting party to meet load obligations for which it is eligible to receive stage 1 Auction 
Revenue Rights and remains in force and effect for a minimum term of ten (10) years. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTON 7 - FINANCIAL 