ATTACHMENT V 
 
FORM OF ITC AGREEMENT 
 
1.0 This ITC Agreement, dated as of ___________, is entered into, by and between PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) and _______ (“Independent Transmission Company” or 
“ITC”). 
 
2.0 ITC has, or shall have, prior to commencement of service as an ITC, ownership of, or 
functional control of, the transmission facilities for which it wishes to become the ITC (“ITC 
Transmission Facilities”).  ITC desires to become an independent transmission company within 
the PJM region, in accordance with Tariff, Attachment S. 
 
3.0 This ITC Agreement is subject to and expressly incorporates by this reference the 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment U, as it may be modified from time to time, which sets forth  
the standard division of responsibilities, and associated terms and conditions, for any ITC that 
operates in the  PJM region. 
 
4.0 Any responsibility or function of PJM not expressly assigned or transferred herein to ITC 
shall remain with PJM.  Any responsibility or function of ITC under any agreement between ITC 
and any owner of transmission facilities not expressly assigned or transferred herein to PJM shall 
remain with ITC.  Capitalized terms used herein that are not otherwise defined herein shall have 
the meaning given to such term in the Tariff. 
 
5.0 PJM and ITC agree to assume, with respect to the ITC Transmission Facilities, the 
respective rights and responsibilities set forth in Tariff, Attachment U.   
 
6.0 The ITC Transmission Facilities that are the subject of this agreement are specifically 
identified in Schedule 1 to this ITC Agreement.  
 
 6.1 In the event ITC acquires or otherwise operates transmission facilities not 
identified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement that are outside the PJM region, such facilities shall 
not be deemed ITC Transmission Facilities unless ITC so chooses to designate or assign such 
facilities, subject to PJM’s agreement and FERC’s approval.  If ITC acquires or otherwise 
operates transmission facilities not identified in Schedule 1 of this Agreement that are within the 
PJM region, such facilities shall be deemed ITC Transmission Facilities. 
 
7.0 Following ITC’s satisfaction of the prerequisites specified in Tariff, Attachment S, 
including FERC approvals, the ITC shall assume the rights and responsibilities described herein 
on the first day of the calendar month (“ITC Commencement Date”) following the date on which 
the ITC provides written certification to Transmission Provider that the ITC has in place the 
capability, including, without limitation, the approvals, licenses, assignments, trained and 
qualified personnel, systems, and facilities necessary to undertake its responsibilities hereunder.  
PJM shall coordinate with the ITC prior to the ITC Commencement Date to ensure that PJM is 
capable as of the ITC Commencement Date of providing the responsibilities reserved to PJM 
hereunder as to the ITC Transmission Facilities and related bulk power facilities. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT V 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 2 
8.0 This Agreement shall remain in effect until the effective date of ITC’s withdrawal from 
this Agreement.  ITC may withdraw from this Agreement upon ninety (90) days advance written 
notice to PJM, provided that such withdrawal shall not be effective until ITC with respect to the 
ITC Transmission Facilities has (1) satisfied all applicable NERC and Applicable Regional 
Entity requirements for operating a control area or being included within an existing control area; 
(2) put in place alternative arrangements for satisfaction of FERC’s requirements with respect to 
comparable transmission services and, if required, participation in an RTO or Independent 
Transmission Provider; (3) transferred all of its functions and obligations as an ITC to one or 
more other entities to the satisfaction of FERC, and (4) received FERC approval or acceptance 
without suspension or hearing. 
 
 8.1 If ITC withdraws, it shall remain liable for any and all obligations incurred 
hereunder by ITC prior to the effective date of ITC’s withdrawal.   
 
 8.2 If ITC becomes aware of any event that will cause ITC to relinquish functional 
control of any ITC Transmission Facilities, ITC shall notify PJM in writing as soon as 
practicable after becoming aware of such event. 
 
9.0 This Agreement shall not be interpreted or construed to create any association, joint 
venture, or partnership between or among PJM and ITC or to impose any partnership obligation 
liability upon any either party.  No party shall have the right, power or authority under this 
Agreement to enter into any agreement or undertaking for, or act on behalf of, or to act as or be 
an agent or representative of, or to otherwise bind, any other party. 
 
10.0 This Agreement is intended solely for the benefit of the parties and their respective 
successors and permitted assigns and is not intended to and shall not confer any rights or benefits 
on, any third party (other than the parties’ successors and permitted assigns) that is not a 
signatory hereto.  
 
11.0 This ITC Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties and their 
respective successors and assigns permitted herein, but shall not be assigned except to a 
successor in the operation of a party’s Transmission Facilities by reason of a merger, 
consolidation, reorganization, sale, spin-off, or foreclosure, as a result of which substantially all 
such Transmission Facilities are acquired by such a successor, and such successor expressly is 
made a party to this Agreement, provided that any successor to either party shall procure all 
necessary regulatory approvals to exercise its rights and responsibilities in accordance with this 
Agreement. 
 
12.0 This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and governed by the laws of the state of 
Delaware. 
 
13.0 Whether expressly so stated or not, all notices, demands, requests and other 
communications required or permitted by or provided for in this Agreement (“Notice”) shall be 
given in writing to a party at the address set forth below, or at such other address as a party shall 
designate for itself in writing in accordance with this section, and shall be delivered by hand or 
overnight courier: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT V 
Effective Date: 3/1/2019 - Docket #: ER19-744-000 - Page 3 
 
 For all Notices: 
 
 PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
 2750 Monroe Blvd. 
 Audubon, PA 19403 
  
 
ITC 
 
ITC represents and warrants to PJM that ITC has obtained, and at all times shall retain ownership 
of, or the authority to direct the operation of, the ITC Transmission Facilities; provided, 
however, that if a transmission owner participating in the ITC withdraws from the ITC, the 
description of the ITC Transmission Facilities in Schedule 1 shall be revised accordingly. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, PJM and ITC have caused this ITC Agreement to be executed by 
their duly authorized representatives. 
 
[signature blocks] 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT W - Transmission Facility Ratings 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 1 
