ATTACHMENT H-8H 
FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION PROTOCOLS 
 
 
I. Definitions 
 
A. “Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement” or “ATRR” means the projected net 
revenue requirement calculated in accordance with PPL Electric’s Formula Rate, and 
which shall be posted on the PJM Website on or before October 31, 2022, and on or 
before each October 31 st  thereafter, 1 and shall be applicable for services for the period 
commencing January 1 of the next calendar year through and including December  31 of 
the next calendar year.  The ATRR plus the True-Up Adjustment shall determine the rate 
for the period from January 1 through and including December  31 of the next calendar 
year. 
 
B. “Annual Update” means the informational filing submitted by PPL Electric on or before 
October 31, pursuant to Section IV of these Protocols. 
 
C. “Discovery Period” means the period, commencing as of the day immediately following 
the True-Up Adjustment Publication Date, for serving Information Requests pursuant to 
Section VI of these Protocols. 
  
 
D. “Formal Challenge” means a filing made by an Interested Party to the Commission in 
accordance with the terms of Section VII of these Protocols, and which shall include the 
information required under 18 C.F.R. § 385.206(b)(1), (2), (3), (4) and (7). 
 
E. “Formula Rate” means the cost of service template and associated attachments shown in 
Attachment H-8G. 
 
F. “Interested Party” means a party that is or may become a customer taking transmission 
service under this Formula Rate, any state utility commission or state consumer advocacy 
agency of a state in which customers that are allocated costs of the PPL Electric 
transmission facilities are located, any party to Commission Docket ER08-1457, or any 
entity having standing under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act. 
 
G. “Material Accounting Change” means any (i) change in PPL Electric’s accounting 
policies and practices (as such changes are defined by the Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 154 issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or its 
successor), or (ii) change in PPL Electric’s inter-corporate cost allocation policies or 
practices from those policies and/or practices in effect for the Rate Year upon which the 
immediately preceding Annual Update was based, which change causes a result under the 
 
1 In the transition from a June 1 to May 31 Rate Year to a calendar year Rate Year based on the January 1 to 
December 31 period, the Annual Update will occur on or before October 31, 2022 for rates to be effective January 1, 
2023 through December 31, 2023.  If the effective date of the transition from a June 1 to May 31 Rate Year to a 
calendar year Rate Year based on the January 1 to December 31 period does not occur by October 31, 2022, the 
Annual Update establishing the first calendar year rate year will be delayed by the same amount of time the effective 
date is delayed beyond October 31, 2022. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8H - PPL 
Effective Date: 1/31/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2719-002 - Page 2 
Formula Rate different than the result under the Formula Rate as calculated without such 
change. 
 
H. “Preliminary Challenge” means a written notice delivered to PPL Electric during the 
Review Period which specifies an Interested Party’s challenge to the Annual Update or 
True-Up Adjustment pursuant to Section VI of these Protocols. 
 
I. “Protocols” means these Formula Rate Implementation Protocols. 
 
J. “Publication Date” means, with respect to the filing and posting of each Annual Update, 
October 31st of each year and with respect to the filing and posting of each True-Up 
Adjustment, June 1st of each year; provided, however, that if such date should fall on a 
weekend or a holiday recognized by the Commission, then the posting or filing shall be 
due on the next business day and the “Publication Date” shall correspond to the actual 
posting or filing date. 
 
K. “Rate Year” means the twelve consecutive month period of January 1 through December 
31 that corresponds to the year for which charges are assessed under the Formula Rate. 
 
L. “Review Period” means the period, commencing as of the day immediately following the 
True-Up Publication Date, for reviewing these informational filings for any given year 
pursuant to Section VI of these Protocols. 
 
M. “True-Up Adjustment” means informational filing submitted by PPL Electric on or 
before June 1 of every year, pursuant to Section III of these Protocols that shall calculate 
the difference between (i) the ATRR for a Rate Year calculated pursuant to steps set forth 
in Attachment 6 of the Formula Rate and (ii) the ATRR for the same Rate Year 
calculated pursuant to the steps set forth in Attachment 6 of the Formula Rate, which 
difference, together with interest, calculated in accordance with the terms of Section 
III.B, shall be added to, or subtracted from, as the case may be, the ATRR used to set the 
rate that will be in effect for the next succeeding Rate Year.   
 
II. Formula Rate 
 
A. Formula Rate inputs for (i) rate of return on common equity; 2 and (ii) “Post-Employment 
Benefits other than Pensions” pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 
No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for Post-Retirement Benefits other than Pensions 
(“PBOP”) charges shall be stated values to be used in the Formula Rate until changed 
pursuant to a Federal Power Act Section 205 or 206 proceeding.  PPL Electric may make 
a limited Section 205 filing to change its rate of return on common equity, change its 
PBOP accruals, or to change the amortization/depreciation rate computations set forth in 
the Formula Rate.  The sole issue for examination in any such limited Section 205 filing 
 
2 If the transition from a June 1 to May 31 Rate Year to a calendar year Rate Year based on the January 1 to 
December 31 period occurs during a year in which the Base ROE would change on June 1st pursuant to the approved 
settlement agreement in Docket No. EL20-48-000, PPL Electric will use a blended (i.e., weighted average) Base 
ROE that reflects the number of months each ROE set forth in Section 1.1 of the settlement agreement is in effect 
during the transition year. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8H - PPL 
Effective Date: 1/31/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2719-002 - Page 3 
shall be whether such proposed changes are just and reasonable, and shall not include 
other aspects of the Formula Rate.  These protocols shall not prohibit an Interested Party 
protesting any such limited Section 205 filing from arguing that the proposed changes 
will render other aspects of the Formula Rate unjust and unreasonable.  If the 
Commission accepts such argument, the only remedy shall be the rejection of the limited 
Section 205 filing or of the proposed changes, and such rejection shall not result in any 
change to any aspect of the Formula Rate.  Changes in depreciation rates to track a state 
commission order shall become effective on the same date as the state commission order 
becomes effective, but no earlier than the effective date of a limited Section 205 filing to 
incorporate such changes in the Formula Rate. 
 
B. Any modification to the Formula Rate shall be made through a Federal Power Act 
Section 205 or Section 206 filing, and not through any Annual Update, a Preliminary 
Challenge, a Formal Challenge or a True-Up Adjustment. 
 
C. The Formula Rate is not intended to preempt, negate, or be a substitute for any 
obligations of PPL Electric under any applicable state law. 
 
D. PPL Electric shall file and seek Commission approval to use a new depreciation and 
service life study at the time it files any such study with the Pennsylvania Public Utility 
Commission, provided, however, no depreciation and service life study may be used by 
PPL Electric to determine the amortization/depreciation expense in the Formula Rate for 
more than five years without completing, filing and obtaining Commission approval of a 
new depreciation and service life study.  
 
III. True-Up Adjustment 
 
A. PPL Electric will calculate the amount of under- or over-collection of its actual Net 
Revenue Requirement during the preceding Rate Year (“True-Up Adjustment”) on June 
1st of each year. 3  The True-Up Adjustment shall be the sum of the True-Up Adjustment 
Over/Under Recovery and the Interest on the True-Up Adjustment Over/Under Recovery 
as determined in Section III(C). 
 
B. PPL Electric’s projected Net Revenue Requirement collected during the previous Rate 
Year4 will be compared to PPL Electric’s actual Net Revenue Requirement for the 
 
3 In order to transition to a calendar year rate year that is effective January 1, 2023, the October 31, 2022 annual 
update will consist of a truncated true-up.  The rate in effect for the months of June through December 2022 
included a pro-rata share of the 2021 true-up or seven months of the 2021 true-up amount.  The rates effective 
January 1, 2023 will include the remaining portion, or five months, of the 2021 true-up amount.  The June 1, 2023 
True-Up Adjustment will true-up the 2022 calendar year ATRR received to 2022 calendar year revenue requirement 
based on 2022 actual costs. 
 
4  If the initial use of the calendar year rate year covers only part of a calendar year, the initial projected annual 
ATRR will be divided by 12 to calculate the monthly projected cost of service to be collected each month it is 
effective that first year.  Similarly, the actual ATRR will be divided by 12 to calculate the actual monthly cost of 
service to be collected during those same months of that year.  Similar calculations of projected ATRR and actual 
ATRR will be made for the months prior to the effective date of this Formula Rate using the previous formula rate 
and protocols in effect during those months. The actual ATRR computed under each of the two formula rate periods 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8H - PPL 
Effective Date: 1/31/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2719-002 - Page 4 
previous Rate Year calculated in accordance with PPL Electric’s Formula Rate and based 
upon (i) PPL Electric’s FERC Form No. 1 for that same Rate Year, (ii) any FERC orders 
specifically applicable to PPL Electric’s calculation of its annual revenue requirement, 
(iii) the books and records of PPL Electric (which shall be maintained consistent with the 
FERC Uniform System of Accounts (“USofA”)), (iv) FERC accounting policies and 
practices applicable to the calculation of annual revenue requirements under formula 
rates, and (v) any aspects of the PJM Tariff Governing Documents that apply to the 
calculation of annual revenue requirements under individual transmission owner formula 
rates,5 to determine any over- or under-recovery ("True-Up Adjustment Over/Under 
Recovery"). 
 
C. PPL Electric shall submit a “workable” Excel file containing its True Up Adjustment as 
an informational filing to the Commission and shall post the same on the website of PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”), www.pjm.com, or any successor thereto (“PJM 
Website”). Within ten (10) days of such posting, PJM shall provide notice of such posting 
via an email exploder list.   
 
D. Interest on any True-up shall be based on the interest rate equal to the interest rate 
determined by 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a.  Interest rates will be used to calculate the time value 
of money for the period that the True-up exists.  The interest rate to be applied to the 
True-up will be determined using the average rate for the twenty (20) months preceding 
September 1 of the current year. 
 
 
IV. Annual Update and Annual Meeting 
 
 
A. Annual Update  
 
PPL Electric shall submit its Annual Update as an informational filing to the Commission 
and shall post the same on the PJM Website.  
 
(1) The Annual Update shall calculate PPL Electric’s Annual Transmission Revenue 
Requirement for the next Rate Year in accordance with the terms of the Formula 
Rate and these Protocols.    
 
(2) The Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement shall be based on PPL Electric’s 
 books and records which reflect data properly recorded in: 
 
(a) PPL Electric’s FERC Form No. 1 (to the extent the Formula Rate specifies 
FERC Form No. 1 data as the input sources); and 
(b) The Commission’s Uniform System of Accounts, as each exists as of the 
last day of the preceding calendar year. 
 
 
that initial Rate Year will be added together to obtain the total actual ATRR. The first True-Up Adjustment will 
compare this total actual ATRR to the ATRR collected under the two formulas for that initial Rate Year. 
5 PJM Tariff Governing Documents include the PJM Tariff, Bylaws, Criteria, and Membership Agreements. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8H - PPL 
Effective Date: 1/31/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2719-002 - Page 5 
(3) The Annual Update shall: 
 
(a) provide supporting documentation for data not otherwise available in 
FERC Form No. 1 that are used in the Formula Rate; 
(b) provide notice of Material Accounting Changes, which may incorporate 
by reference applicable disclosure statements filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission; 
(c) be subject to challenge and review only in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in this Attachment; and  
(d) provide sufficient information, including all workpapers necessary to 
explain any changes made since the last Annual Update, to enable any 
Interested Party to replicate the calculation of the Formula Rate results 
from FERC Form No. 1 and other applicable accounting inputs and to 
compare the calculation to that of prior Rate Years, and further to include, 
as applicable: 
 
(i) identification of any changes in the formula references in the 
FERC Form No. 1; 
 
(ii) identification of all adjustments made to the FERC Form No. 1 
data in determining formula inputs, including relevant footnotes to the 
FERC Form No. 1 and any adjustments not shown in FERC Form No. 1 
footnotes;  
 
(iii) a description and quantification of the inputs to the Annual 
Transmission Revenue Requirement that materially changed since the 
immediately preceding Annual Update, and a detailed explanation of the 
primary reason(s) for such changes; and 
 
(iv) the most recent annual report filed with the Pennsylvania Public 
Utility Commission that shows the annual amortization/depreciation rates 
derived from the applicable depreciation and service life study approved 
for use by the Commission as the basis for calculating such rates. 
 
B. Annual Meeting and Formula Rate Data 
 
(1) Within five calendar days of the Annual Update Publication Date, PPL Electric 
will send a “workable” Excel file containing data for the Formula Rate populated 
with inputs for the Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement for the next Rate 
Year to the attention of the Chief Counsel of the Pennsylvania Public Utility 
Commission, and to the general counsel or executive secretary of the New Jersey 
Board of Public Utilities, the Maryland Public Service Commission, and the 
Delaware Public Service Commission, and shall post the same to the PJM 
Website. Within ten (10) days of such posting, PJM shall provide notice of such 
posting via an email exploder list.  Upon written request for a particular Rate 
Year’s Annual Update by any Interested Party, PPL Electric will promptly make 
available to such Interested Party a “workable” Excel file containing that year’s 
Annual Update.  Upon written request, PPL Electric will provide to an Interested 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8H - PPL 
Effective Date: 1/31/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2719-002 - Page 6 
Party a description of the basis upon which transmission projects were planned 
either by PJM or PPL Electric. 
 
(2) PPL Electric shall provide notice on the PJM Website of the time, date and 
location of an Annual Meeting among Interested Parties (“Annual Meeting”) no 
later than seven (7) days prior to the Annual Meeting.  The Annual Meeting shall 
take place no sooner than fourteen (14) and no later than thirty (30) days after the 
Annual Update Publication Date.  This Annual Meeting shall permit PPL Electric 
to explain and clarify its Annual Update, and provide Interested Parties an 
opportunity to seek information and clarifications from PPL Electric about the 
Annual Update.  The Annual Meeting shall also provide Interested Parties an 
opportunity to seek information and clarification regarding the Annual 
Transmission Revenue Requirement. PPL Electric shall provide remote access to 
Annual Meetings to allow all Interested Parties the opportunity to remotely 
participate in such meetings. 
 
(3) PPL Electric will, on a best efforts basis, notify each of the parties to Commission 
Docket No. ER08-1457 each year by electronic mail that the Annual Update has 
been posted and describe the time and location of the Annual Meeting.  Parties to 
Commission Docket No. ER08-1457 are responsible for providing any change to 
their contact information to PPL Electric in order to continue to receive such 
notice.  Updated contact information should be sent to Office of General Counsel, 
PPL Services Corporation, Two North Ninth Street, Allentown, PA 18101, 
referencing Docket No. ER08-1457. 
 
C. Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement 
 
(1) It is the intent of the Formula Rate, including the supporting explanations and 
allocations described therein, that each input to the Formula Rate for purposes of 
the Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement will be either taken directly from 
the FERC Form No. 1 or reconcilable to the FERC Form No. 1 by the application 
of clearly identified and supporting information. Where the reconciliation is 
provided through a worksheet included in the filed Formula Rate template, the 
inputs to the worksheet must meet this transparency standard, and doing so will 
satisfy this transparency requirement for the amounts that are output from the 
worksheet and input to the main body of the Formula Rate.   
 
V. Construction Work in Progress 
 
A. Accounting 
 
For each transmission project listed on Attachment 7 for which PPL Electric, or one of its 
operating companies, has received Commission approval or authorization for incentive 
rate treatment and recovery of 100 percent of Construction Work in Progress (“CWIP”), 
PPL Electric shall use the following accounting procedures to ensure that it does not 
recover an Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (“AFUDC”) for such project. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8H - PPL 
Effective Date: 1/31/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2719-002 - Page 7 
(1) PPL Electric shall assign each such project a unique Super Project Number 
(“SPN”) for internal cost tracking purposes. 
 
(2) PPL Electric shall record actual construction costs to each SPN through 
expenditure requisitions (“ERs”) that are coded to correspond to the SPN for each 
such project.  Such ERs shall be segregated from ERs from work orders for any 
other projects of PPL Electric. 
 
(3) For each such project, PPL Electric shall prepare monthly ER summaries of costs 
incurred under the associated SPN.  These summaries shall show monthly 
additions to CWIP and plant in service and shall correspond to amounts recorded 
in PPL Electric’s FERC Form No. 1.  PPL Electric shall use these summaries as 
data inputs into the Annual Update calculated on Attachment 6 of the Formula 
Rate.  PPL Electric shall make such ER summaries available upon request under 
the review procedures of Section VI. 
 
(4) When any such project, or portion thereof, is placed into service, PPL Electric 
shall deduct from the total CWIP the accumulated charges for ERs under the SPN 
for that project, or portion thereof.  The purpose of this control process is to 
ensure that expenditures are not double counted as both CWIP and as additions to 
plant. 
 
(5) For non-incentive transmission projects, PPL Electric shall record AFUDC to be 
applied to CWIP and capitalized when the project is placed into service. 
 
B. Annual Reporting 
 
PPL Electric shall include in the Annual Update submitted to the Commission the 
following information concerning each such project: 
 
(1) the actual amount of CWIP recorded for each project; 
 
(2) any amounts recorded in related Commission accounts or sub-accounts, such as 
AFUDC and regulatory liability; 
 
(3) the resulting effect on the CWIP revenue requirement; 
 
(4) a statement of the current status of each project; and 
 
(5) the estimated in-service date for each project. 
 
VI. Annual Update and True-Up Adjustment Review Procedures 
 
A. Each Annual Update and True-Up Adjustment shall be subject to the following review 
procedures, which procedures may also address PPL Electric’s posting as provided 
herein. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8H - PPL 
Effective Date: 1/31/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2719-002 - Page 8 
B. The Review Period shall commence the day immediately following the Publication Date 
of the True-Up Adjustment.  Interested Parties shall have the right to review the 
calculations and inputs of the Annual Update and the True-Up Adjustment.  The Review 
Period shall run for two hundred and forty (240) days, but shall be extended by fifteen 
(15) days upon the receipt by PPL Electric of a written request for extension from one or 
more Interested Party(ies), whereupon the Review Period shall end no later than two 
hundred and fifty-five (255) days after the Publication Date, subject, however, to the 
terms of Section VI.E below. 
 
C. During the Discovery Period, Interested Parties shall have the right to serve reasonable 
information and document requests (“Information Requests”) on PPL Electric relevant to 
the Annual Update and True-Up Adjustment.  The Discovery Period shall run for two 
hundred and ten (210) days, but may be extended in accordance with Section V.E below. 
 
D. The subjects of such Information Requests shall be limited to what is or may be 
reasonably necessary to determine: (a) that the input data are properly recorded; (b) that 
PPL Electric has properly applied the Formula Rate and the procedures in these 
Protocols; (c) the accuracy of data and the consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
charges shown in the Annual Update and the True-Up Adjustment; (d) the extent and 
effect(s) of Material Accounting Changes; (e) the prudence of the costs and expenditures 
included for recovery in the Annual Update; (f) the prudence of projected expenses 
included in the projected capital addition expenditures; and (g) the reasonableness of any 
cost allocation methodologies, including inter-corporate cost allocation methodologies 
that differ from those utilized in the prior Annual Update. 
 
E. PPL Electric shall make a good faith effort to respond to Information Requests within 
fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such Information Requests.  Notwithstanding 
anything to the contrary contained in these Protocols, with respect to any Information 
Requests received by PPL Electric within the Discovery Period and for which PPL 
Electric is unable to provide a response within fifteen (15) business days after the end of 
the Discovery Period, the Review Period shall be extended day for day until PPL 
Electric’s response is provided.  If the Disovery Period concludes on a weekend or 
holiday recognized by FERC, the Discovery Period shall be extended to the next business 
day, and the Review Period shall be extended an equivalent number of days. If the 
Review Period concludes on a weekend or holiday recognized by FERC, the Review 
Period shall be extended to the next business day.  Any delay in the Publication Date of 
the Annual Update from the Publication Date shall extend the Discovery Period and 
Review Period an equivalent number of days. 
 
VII. Preliminary and Formal Challenges 
 
A. Challenges 
 
(1)   Preliminary or Formal Challenges to the Annual Update and True-Up Adjustment 
posting may challenge one or more of the following:   
 
(a)  the extent or effect of a Material Accounting Change; 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8H - PPL 
Effective Date: 1/31/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2719-002 - Page 9 
(b)  whether a True-Up Adjustment includes only properly recorded data in 
accordance with Section III; 
 
(c)  whether the Annual Update fails to include data properly recorded in 
accordance with Section IV; 
 
(d) whether the Annual Update satisfies the transparency standard of 
Section IV.D; 
 
(e) the proper application by PPL Electric of the Formula Rate and the 
procedures in these Protocols; 
 
(f) the accuracy of data and the consistency with the Formula Rate of the 
charges shown in the Annual Update and the True-Up Adjustment; 
 
(g) the consistency of the amortization/depreciation rates in the Formula 
Rate with the most recent depreciation and service life study approved 
for use by the Commission as the basis for calculating 
amortization/depreciation rates in the Formula Rate; 
 
(h) the prudence of PPL Electric’s projected costs and expenditures; 
 
(i) the prudence of the actual costs and expenditures; 
 
(j) the effect of any change to the underlying Uniform System of Accounts 
or FERC Form No. 1; and 
 
(k) whether, as a consequence of any of the above in this Section VII.A.1, 
the Formula Rate, as initially accepted by the Commission, has been 
materially altered. 
 
B. Resolution of Preliminary Challenges or Filing of Formal Challenge 
 
(1)  PPL Electric and Interested Parties raising Preliminary Challenges shall attempt in 
good faith to resolve all Preliminary Challenges. 
 
(2) If an Interested Party who has raised a Preliminary Challenge and PPL Electric 
have not resolved the Preliminary Challenge within twenty-one (21) days after 
expiration of the Review Period, that Interested Party shall have an additional 
twenty-one (21) days to make a Formal Challenge with the Commission, which 
shall be served on PPL Electric by electronic service on the date of such filing; 
provided, however, if the Commission initiates a proceeding to consider the 
Annual Update, Interested Parties may raise therein any Formal Challenges 
without regard to the Review Period or timeframes specified herein. If either 
period concludes on a weekend or holiday recognized by FERC, the period shall 
be extended to the next business day. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8H - PPL 
Effective Date: 1/31/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2719-002 - Page 10 
(3) Interested Parties shall make a good faith effort to raise all issues in a Preliminary 
Challenge prior to filing a Formal Challenge; provided, however, that a 
Preliminary Challenge shall not be a prerequisite for bringing a Formal Challenge. 
 
(4) Within twenty (20) days of the date of the filing of a Formal Challenge, PPL 
Electric shall submit its response to the Commission and certify therein that it has 
served by electronic service that response on any party that has filed a Formal 
Challenge and on each person upon whom PPL Electric served the Annual Update 
and True-Up Adjustment. 
 
C. Formal Proceedings 
 
(1) In any proceeding initiated by the Commission concerning the Annual Update, the 
True-Up Adjustment or in response to a Formal Challenge, PPL Electric shall 
bear the burden of proving that it has reasonably applied the terms of the Formula 
Rate, including the calculation of the True-Up Adjustment and/or reasonably 
adopted and applied Material Accounting Changes, if any, consistent with the 
applicable procedures in these Protocols.  Nothing herein is intended to alter the 
burdens applied by the Commission with respect to prudence challenges. 
(2)  Nothing herein shall be deemed to limit in any way the right of PPL Electric, 
pursuant to Section 205 of the Federal Power Act and the regulations thereunder, 
or any Interested Party, pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal Power Act and the 
regulations thereunder, to file changes to the Formula Rate or any of its stated 
values.  The party filing pursuant to Section 205 or 206 bears the burden under 
such section as required by law.   
 
VIII. Changes to Annual Informational Filings 
 
A.  Any changes to the data inputs, including but not limited to revisions to PPL Electric’s 
FERC Form No. 1, or as the result of any FERC proceeding to consider the Annual 
Update or the True-Up Adjustment, or as a result of the procedures set forth herein, shall 
be incorporated into the Formula Rate and the charges produced by the Formula Rate 
(with interest determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a) in the Annual Update 
for the next effective Rate Year.  This reconciliation mechanism shall apply in lieu of 
mid-Rate Year adjustments and any refunds or surcharges.  However, actual refunds or 
surcharges (with interest determined in accordance with 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a) for the then 
current Rate Year shall be made in the event that the Formula Rate is replaced by a stated 
rate by PPL Electric. 
 
B. To the extent that any party, including but not limited to PPL Electric, its auditors, any 
wholesale customer, any Interested Party, or the Commission, finds an error in any FERC 
Form No. 1 data or specific data applied in the Formula Rate, related to the period under 
review, such error must be corrected in the Formula Rate or Annual Update and shall be 
reflected in the True-Up Adjustment in the next succeeding True-Up Adjustment.  
Nothing herein is intended to allow, bar, or otherwise address any error, or the correction 
thereof, occurring in a period prior to the period under review.  Further, nothing herein 
shall prejudice any party’s claims concerning: (i) any error occurring in a period prior to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-8H - PPL 
Effective Date: 1/31/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2719-002 - Page 11 
the period under review; (ii) the correction of any prior period errors in the Formula Rate; 
or (iii) the implementation of any such corrections. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-9 - Potomac Electric 
Effective Date: 4/24/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1313-000 - Page 1 
