ATTACHMENT H-9C 
Annual Transmission Rate – Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
For Network Integration Transmission Service  
 
1. The transmission revenue requirement is $17,086,212, which reflects the facilities within 
the Zone of 230 kV and higher voltage for Southern Maryland Electric Cooperative, Inc. 
("SMECO").   The transmission revenue requirement applicable under this Attachment 
H-9C shall be applicable to services beginning on May 1, 2018.  The Network Integration 
Transmission Service rate shall be calculated by dividing the transmission revenue 
requirement by the Network Service Peak Load obligation in effect for the Potomac 
Electric Power Company ("Pepco") Zone.  The Network Integration Transmission 
Service rate for the period May 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018 shall be 
$2,802.21/MW-year.   
2. On or before December 15, 2018, and on or before December 15 of each year thereafter, 
SMECO shall calculate the Network Integration Transmission Service rate that will apply 
for the period January 1 through December 31 of the upcoming year by dividing the 
transmission revenue requirement stated above by the Network Service Peak Load 
obligation in effect for the Pepco Zone for the upcoming year, and: 
a. Requiring that such rate be posted on PJM's website; and  
b. Filing such rate with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC" or 
"Commission") as an informational filing. 
3. The annual transmission revenue requirement in Section 1 shall be effective until 
amended by the Commission pursuant to a filing by the Transmission Owner under 
Section 205, or pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal Power Act. 
4. In addition to the rate calculated pursuant to this Attachment H-9C, the Network 
Customer purchasing Network Integration Transmission Service shall pay for 
transmission congestion charges, in accordance with the provisions of the Tariff, and any 
amounts necessary to reimburse the Transmission Owners for any amounts payable by 
them as sales, excuse, "Btu," carbon, value-added or similar taxes (other than taxes based 
upon or measured by net income) with respect to the amounts payable pursuant to the 
Tariff. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Attachment H-10 - PSEG 
Effective Date: 11/22/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2916-000 - Page 1 
