[ATTACHMENT O-2 - Part 6 of 22]

certifications.   
 
(d) For Planned External Generation Capacity Resources, the RPM Auction Credit 
requirement shall be reduced as the Capacity Resource attains the milestones stated in the 
following table and as further described in the PJM Manuals; provided, however, that the total 
percentage reduction in the RPM Auction Credit requirement shall be no greater than the 
quotient of (i) the MWs of firm transmission service that the Market Participant has secured for 
the complete transmission path divided by (ii) the MWs of firm transmission service required to  
qualify such resource under the deliverability requirements of the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 7 
 
Credit Reduction Milestones for Planned External Generation Capacity Resources 
Milestones 
Increment of reduction from 
initial RPM Auction Credit 
requirement 
Effective Date of the equivalent of an Interconnection 
Service Agreement, Generation Interconnection 
Agreement or Wholesale Market Participation 
Agreement 
50% 
Financial Close 15% 
Full Notice to Proceed and Commencement of 
Construction (e.g., footers poured) 5% 
Main Power Generating Equipment Delivered 5% 
Commencement of Interconnection Service 25% 
 
To obtain a reduction in its RPM Auction Credit requirement, the Market Participant must 
demonstrate satisfaction of the applicable milestone in the same manner as set forth for Planned 
Generation Capacity Resources in subsection (c) above.   
 
 (e) For Qualifying Transmission Upgrades, the RPM Auction Credit requirement 
shall be reduced to 50% of the amount calculated under section VI.B.2 above beginning as of the 
effective date of the latest associated Interconnection Service Agreement or Generation 
Interconnection Agreement (or, when a project will have no such agreement, an Upgrade 
Construction Service Agreement), and shall be reduced to zero on the date the Qualifying 
Transmission Upgrade is placed in service.   
 
4. RPM Auction Credit Rate 
 
As set forth in the PJM Manuals, a separate Auction Credit Rate shall be calculated for each 
Delivery Year prior to each RPM Auction for such Delivery Year, as follows: 
 
(a)  Prior to the posting of the results of a Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year, the 
Auction Credit Rate shall be: 
 
(i) For Capacity Performance Resources, the greater of ((A) 0.5 times the Net Cost of 
New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the Relevant LDA, 
in MW-day or (B) $20 per MW-day) times the number of calendar days in such 
Delivery Year. 
 
(ii) For Seasonal Capacity Performance Resources, the same as the Auction Credit 
Rate for Capacity Performance Resources, but reduced to be proportional to the 
number of calendar days in the relevant season. 
 
(b) Subsequent to the posting of the results from a Base Residual Auction, the Auction Credit 
Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for supply committed in such auction shall be: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 8 
 
(i) For Capacity Performance Resources, the (greater of [(A) $20/MW-day or (B) 0.2 
times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such auction for the Locational 
Deliverability Area within which the resource is located) or (C) the lesser of (1) 
0.5 times the Net Cost of New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year 
or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day or (2) 1.5 times the Net Cost of New 
Entry (stated on an installed capacity basis) for the PJM Region for such Delivery 
year or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day minus (the Capacity Resource 
Clearing Price in such auction for the Locational Deliverability Area within which 
the resource is located)] times the number of calendar days in such Delivery 
Year). 
 
(ii) For Seasonal Capacity Performance Resources, the same as the Auction Credit 
Rate for Capacity Performance Resources, but reduced to be proportional to the 
number of calendar days in the relevant season. 
 
(c) For any resource not previously committed for a Delivery Year that seeks to participate in 
an Incremental Auction, the Auction Credit Rate shall be: 
 (i) For Capacity Performance Resources, the (greater of (A) 0.5 times Net Cost of 
New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the Relevant LDA or (B) $20/MW-
day) times the number of calendar days in such Delivery Year. 
 
(d) Subsequent to the posting of the results of an Incremental Auction, the Auction Credit 
Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for supply committed in such auction shall be: 
 
(i) For Capacity Performance Resources, the greater of [(A) $20/MW-day or (B) 0.2 
times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such auction for the Locational 
Deliverability Area within which the resource is located or (C) the lesser of (1) 
0.5 times the Net Cost of New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year 
or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day or (2) 1.5 times the Net Cost of New 
Entry (stated on an installed capacity basis) for the PJM Region for such Delivery 
Year or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day minus (the Capacity Resource 
Clearing Price in such auction for the Locational Deliverability Area within which 
the resource is located)] times the number of calendar days in such Delivery 
Year); and  
 
(ii) For Seasonal Capacity Performance Resources, the same as the Auction Credit 
Rate for Capacity Performance Resources, but reduced to be proportional to the 
number of calendar days in the relevant season. 
 
(e) For the purposes of this section VI.B.4 and section VI.B.5 below, “Relevant LDA” means 
the Locational Deliverability Area in which the Capacity Performance Resource is located if a 
separate Variable Resource Requirement Curve has been established for that Locational 
Deliverability Area for the Base Residual Auction for such Delivery Year. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 9 
5. Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate 
 
(a) For the 2018/2019 through 2022/2023 Delivery Years: 
 
(i) Prior to the posting of the results of a Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year, 
the Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate shall be (the greater of (A) 0.3 times 
the Net Cost of New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year, in MW-
day or (B) $20 per MW-day) times the number of calendar days in such Delivery 
Year; 
 
(ii) Subsequent to the posting of the results from a Base Residual Auction, the Price 
Responsive Demand Credit Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for Price 
Responsive Demand committed in such auction shall be (the greater of (A) 
$20/MW-day or (B) 0.2 times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such 
auction for the Locational Deliverability Area within which the Price Responsive 
Demand load is located, in $/MW-day) times the number of calendar days in such 
Delivery Year times a final price uncertainty factor of 1.05; 
 
(iii) For any additional Price Responsive Demand that seeks to commit in a Third 
Incremental Auction in response to a qualifying change in the final LDA load 
forecast, the Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate shall be the same as the rate 
for Price Responsive Demand that had cleared in the Base Residual Auction; and 
 
(iv) Subsequent to the posting of the results of the Third Incremental Auction, the 
Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for 
all Price Responsive Demand, shall be (the greater of (i) $20/MW-day or (ii) 0.2 
times the Final Zonal Capacity Price for the Locational Deliverability Area within 
which the Price Responsive Demand is located) times the number of calendar 
days in such Delivery Year, but no greater than the Price Responsive Demand 
Credit Rate previously established under subsections (a)(i), (a)(ii), or (a)(iii) of 
this section for such Delivery Year. 
 
(b) For the 2022/2023 Delivery Year and Subsequent Delivery Years: 
 
(i) Prior to the posting of the results of a Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year, 
the Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate shall be (the greater of (A) 0.5 times 
the Net Cost of New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the 
Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day or (B) $20 per MW-day) times the number of 
calendar days in such Delivery Year; 
 
(ii) Subsequent to the posting of the results from a Base Residual Auction, the Price 
Responsive Demand Credit Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for Price 
Responsive Demand committed in such auction shall be (the greater of [(A) 
$20/MW-day or (B) 0.2 times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such 
auction for the Locational Deliverability Area within which the Price Responsive 
Demand is located, in $/MW-day or (C) the lesser of (1) 0.5 times the Net Cost of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 10 
New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the Relevant LDA, 
in $/MW-day or (2) 1.5 times the Net Cost of New Entry (stated on an installed 
capacity basis) for the PJM Region for such Delivery year or for the Relevant 
LDA, in $/MW-day minus (the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such auction 
for the Locational Deliverability Area within which the Price Responsive Demand 
is located)] times the number of calendar days in such Delivery Year; 
 
(iii) For any additional Price Responsive Demand that seeks to commit in a Third 
Incremental Auction in response to a qualifying change in the final LDA load 
forecast, the Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate shall be (the greater of (A) 0.5 
times Net Cost of New Entry for the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for 
the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day or (B) $20/MW-day) times the number of 
calendar days in such Delivery Year; and 
 
(iv) Subsequent to the posting of the results of the Third Incremental Auction, the 
Price Responsive Demand Credit Rate used for ongoing credit requirements for 
all Price Responsive Demand committed in such auction shall be the greater of 
[(A) $20/MW-day or (B) 0.2 times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price in such 
auction for the Locational Deliverability Area within which the Price Responsive 
Demand is located or (C) the lesser of (1) 0.5 times the Net Cost of New Entry for 
the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day or 
(2) 1.5 times the Net Cost of New Entry (stated on an installed capacity basis) for 
the PJM Region for such Delivery Year or for the Relevant LDA, in $/MW-day 
minus (the Capacity Performance Resource Clearing Price in such Incremental 
Auction for  the Locational Deliverability Areas within which the Price 
Responsive Demand is located)] times the number of calendar days in such 
Delivery Year. 
 
6. RPM Seller Credit - Additional Form of Unsecured Credit for RPM 
 
In addition to the forms of credit specified elsewhere in this Attachment Q, RPM Seller Credit 
may be granted to Market Participants, but solely for purposes of satisfying RPM Auction Credit 
requirements.  If a supplier has a history of being a net seller into PJM Markets, on average, over 
the past 12 months, then PJM may grant as available Unsecured Credit up to twice the average of 
that Market Participant’s total net monthly PJM bills over the past 12 months.  This RPM Seller 
Credit shall be subject to an ongoing credit review in accordance with this Attachment Q, section 
II, and the cap on available Unsecured Credit as established in section II.G.3 above.   
 
RPM Seller Credit is calculated as a single value for each Market Participant, not separately by 
account, and must be designated to specific customer accounts in order to be available to satisfy 
RPM Auction Credit requirements that are calculated in each such customer account. 
 
7. Credit Responsibility for Traded Planned RPM Capacity Resources 
 
PJM may require that credit and financial responsibility for planned Capacity Resources that are 
traded remain with the original party (which for these purposes, means the party bearing credit 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 11 
responsibility for the planned Capacity Resource immediately prior to trade) unless the receiving 
party independently establishes consistent with this Attachment Q, that it has sufficient credit 
with PJM and agrees by providing written notice to PJM that it will fully assume the credit 
responsibility associated with the traded planned Capacity Resource.  
 
8. Credit Review of Bilateral Capacity Transactions 
 
To the extent the capacity that is the subject of a bilateral capacity transaction already has cleared 
an auction under Tariff, Attachment DD, such bilateral capacity transactions shall be subject to 
the prior consent of the Office of the Interconnection and its determination that sufficient credit 
is in place for the buyer and/or the seller with respect to the credit exposure associated with such 
obligations. 
 
The following terms shall apply to credit reviews of Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transactions and 
Locational UCAP bilateral transactions: 
 
(a) The Office of the Interconnection shall complete its review of an anticipated Section 
4.6(b) Bilateral transaction on Locational UCAP bilateral transaction by no later than the close of 
the next Business Day if such Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational UCAP bilateral 
transaction has been received by the Office of the Interconnection’s Credit Department for 
review by 1:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time. 
 
(b) The Office of the Interconnection shall complete its review of an anticipated Section 
4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational UCAP bilateral transaction by no later than the close of 
the second (2nd) Business Day if such Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational UCAP 
bilateral transaction has been received by the Office of the Interconnection’s Credit Department 
for review after 1:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time. 
 
(c) The timing of the Market Participants’ submission of an anticipated Section 4.6(b) 
Bilateral transaction or Locational UCAP bilateral transaction to the Office of the 
Interconnection’s Credit Department for review, relative to the desired transaction start date, is at 
the Market Participants’ discretion.  The Market Participants, however, assume all risk in 
delaying the submission to the Office of the Interconnection and the Market Participants hold the 
Office of the Interconnection harmless from any consequences of such delay. 
 
(d) The Office of the Interconnection will make reasonable efforts to communicate its credit 
determination and any associated requirements regarding the anticipated Section 4.6(b) Bilateral 
transaction or Locational UCAP bilateral transaction with the buyer and seller in advance of the 
deadlines set forth in subparts (a) and (b) above. 
 
(e) Each submission of an anticipated Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational 
UCAP bilateral transaction to the Office of the Interconnection for its review shall contain the 
following information supplied by the buyer and/or seller: (i) seller’s account; (ii) buyer’s 
account; (iii) auction/resource; (iv) quantity (MWs); (v) price; (vi) total notional value; and (vii) 
start and end dates. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 12 
(f) All credit reviews of Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transactions and Locational UCAP bilateral 
transactions, including, but not limited to, with respect to the creditworthiness of the buyer and 
seller, the impact of the anticipated Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational UCAP 
bilateral transaction on the buyer and seller, and the determination and timing requirements of 
any additional credit that the Office of the Interconnection may require from one or both of buyer 
and seller as a condition for its consenting to the transaction, shall be performed by the Office of 
the Interconnection in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment Q. 
 
(g) For anticipated Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transactions and Locational UCAP bilateral 
transactions in which (i) both the buyer and seller have external “investment grade” ratings and 
(ii) the total notional value of the anticipated Section 4.6(b) Bilateral transaction or Locational 
UCAP bilateral transaction is less than the Unsecured Credit Allowance for each of the buyer 
and seller, the Office of the Interconnection will be deemed to have consented to such transaction 
unless the Office of the Interconnection has informed the buyer and seller otherwise in advance 
of the applicable deadline under subparts (a) and (b) above. 
 
C. Financial Transmission Right Auctions 
 
Credit requirements described herein for FTR activity are applied separately for each customer 
account of a Market Participant, unless specified otherwise in this section C.  FTR Participants 
must designate the appropriate amount of credit to each separate customer account in which any 
activity occurs or will occur. 
 
1. FTR Credit Limit. 
 
Participants must maintain their FTR Credit Limit at a level equal to or greater than their FTR 
Credit Requirement for each applicable account.  FTR Credit Limits will be established only by a 
Participant providing Collateral and designating the available credit to specific accounts. 
 
2. FTR Credit Requirement. 
 
For each Market Participant with FTR activity, PJM shall calculate an FTR Credit Requirement.  
The FTR Credit Requirement shall be calculated on a portfolio basis for each Market Participant 
based on (a) initial margin, (b) Auction Revenue Right Credits, (c) Mark-to-Auction Value, (d) 
application of a 10¢ per MWh minimum value adjustment, and (e) realized gains and/or losses, 
as set forth in subsections (a)-(e) of this subsection, employing the formula: 
 
Max { Max ( IM – ARR – MTA, Ten Cent per Mwh Minimum) – Realized  Gains and/or 
Losses, 0} 
 
Where IM is the initial margin, ARR is Auction Revenue Rights Credits and MTA is the Mark-
to-Auction Value.  The FTR Credit Requirement may be increased to reflect any change in the 
value of a Market Participant’s portfolio requiring an increase in Collateral as further described 
below.   
 
(a) Initial Margin 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 13 
 
Initial margin shall be calculated in accordance with the following formula: 
 
 IM = FTR Obligations IM + FTR Options IM 
 
The model will employ a confidence interval of 99 percent. 
 
(i) FTR Obligations IM  
 
Initial margin values for Financial Transmission Right Obligations shall be determined utilizing 
a historical simulation value-at-risk methodology that calculates the size and value at risk of the 
applicable FTR portfolio based on a defined confidence interval and subject to a weighted 
aggregation method that is represented by a straight sum for long term positions and a 
combination of straight sum (20%) and weighted root sum of squares (80%) for balance of 
planning period positions.   
 
(ii)  FTR Options IM 
 
The initial margin for Financial Transmission Right Options shall be calculated as the FTR cost 
minus the FTR Historical Values. FTR Historical Values shall be calculated separately for 
weekend on-peak, weekday on-peak, off-peak, and 24-hour FTRs for each month of the year.  
FTR Historical Values shall be adjusted by plus or minus ten percent for cleared counter flow or 
prevailing flow FTRs, respectively, in order to mitigate exposure due to uncertainty and 
fluctuations in actual FTR value.  Historical values used in the calculation of FTR Historical 
Values shall be adjusted when the network simulation model utilized in PJM's economic 
planning process indicates that transmission congestion will decrease due to certain transmission 
upgrades that are in effect or planned to go into effect for the following Planning Period.  The 
transmission upgrades to be modeled for this purpose shall only include those upgrades that, 
individually, or together, have 10% or more impact on the transmission congestion on an 
individual constraint or constraints with congestion of $5 million or more affecting a common 
congestion path.  The adjustments to historical values shall be the dollar amount of the 
adjustment shown in the network simulation model.   
 
(b) Auction Revenue Rights Credits 
 
For a given month for which initial margin is calculated, the prorated value of any Auction 
Revenue Rights Credits held by a Market Participant with Financial Transmission Right 
Obligations shall be subtracted from the initial margin for that month.  In accordance with 
subsection 3 below, PJM may recalculate Auction Revenue Rights Credits at any time, but shall 
do so no less frequently than subsequent to each annual FTR auction.  If a reduction in such 
ARR credits at any time increases an FTR Participant’s FTR Credit Requirements beyond its 
credit available for FTR activity, the FTR Participant must increase its Collateral or the FTR 
Credit Limit. 
 
(c) Mark-to-Auction Value  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 14 
A Mark-to-Auction Value shall be calculated for each Market Participant in accordance with 
subsection 7 below.   
 
(d) Ten Cent (10¢) per MWh Minimum Value Adjustment 
 
If the FTR Credit Requirement as calculated pursuant to subsections (a)-(c) above, results in a 
value that is less than ten cents (10¢) per MWh, the FTR Credit Requirement shall be increased 
to ten cents (10¢) per MWh.  When calculating the portfolio MWh for this comparison, for 
cleared “Sell” FTRs, the MWh shall be subtracted from the portfolio total; prior to clearing, the 
MWh for “Sell” FTRs shall not be included in the portfolio total.   
 
(e) Realized Gains and/or Losses 
Any realized gains and/or losses resulting from the settlement of Financial Transmission Right 
Obligations that have not been paid out will be subtracted from the FTR Credit Requirement.  A 
realized gain will decrease the FTR Credit Requirement (but not below $0.00), whereas a 
realized loss will increase the FTR Credit Requirement. 
 
3. Rejection of FTR Bids. 
 
Bids submitted into an auction will be rejected if the Market Participant’s FTR Credit 
Requirement including such submitted bids would exceed the Market Participant’s FTR Credit 
Limit, or if the Market Participant fails to provide additional Collateral as required pursuant to 
provisions related to mark-to-auction. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 15 
4. FTR Credit Collateral Returns. 
 
A Market Participant may request from PJM the return of any Collateral no longer required for 
the FTR markets.  PJM is permitted to limit the frequency of such requested Collateral returns, 
provided that Collateral returns shall be made by PJM at least once per calendar quarter, if 
requested by a Market Participant. 
 
5. Credit Responsibility for Bilateral Transfers of FTRs. 
 
PJM may require that credit responsibility associated with an FTR bilaterally transferred to a 
new Market Participant remain with the original party (which for these purposes, means the party 
bearing credit responsibility for the FTR immediately prior to bilateral transfer) unless and until 
the receiving party independently establishes, consistent with this Attachment Q, sufficient credit 
with PJM and agrees through confirmation of the bilateral transfer in PJM’s FTR reporting tool 
that it will meet in full the credit requirements associated with the transferred FTR. 
 
6. FTR Administrative Charge Credit Requirement 
 
In addition to any other credit requirements, PJM may apply a credit requirement to cover the 
maximum administrative fees that may be charged to a Market Participant for its bids and offers. 
 
7. Mark-to-Auction 
 
A Mark-to-Auction Value shall be calculated separately for each customer account of a Market 
Participant.  For each such customer account, the Mark-to-Auction Value shall be a single 
number equal to the sum, over all months remaining in the applicable FTR period and for all 
cleared FTRs in the customer account, of the most recently available cleared auction price 
applicable to the FTR minus the original transaction price of the FTR, multiplied by the 
transacted quantity. 
 
The FTR Credit Requirement, as otherwise described above, shall be increased when the Mark-
to-Auction Value is negative and decreased when the Mark-to-Auction Value is positive.  The 
increase shall equal the absolute value of the negative Mark-to-Auction Value less the value of 
ARR credits that are held in the customer account and have not been used to reduce the FTR 
Credit Requirement prior to application of the Mark-to-Auction Value.  PJM shall recalculate 
ARR credits held by each Market Participant after each annual FTR auction and may also 
recalculate such ARR credits at any other additional time intervals it deems appropriate.  
Application of the Mark-to-Auction Value, including the effect from ARR application, shall not 
decrease the FTR Credit Requirement below the Ten Cent (10¢) per MWh Minimum. 
 
For Market Participant customer accounts for which FTR bids have been submitted into the 
current FTR auction, if the Market Participant’s FTR Credit Requirement exceeds its credit 
available for the Market Participant’s portfolio of FTRs in the tentative cleared solution for an 
FTR auction (or auction round), PJM shall issue a Collateral Call to the Market Participant, and 
the Market Participant must fulfill such demand before 4:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time on the 
following Business Day.  If a Market Participant does not timely satisfy such Collateral Call, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 16 
PJM shall, in coordination with PJM, cause the removal of all of that Market Participant's bids in 
that FTR auction (or auction round), submitted from such Market Participant’s customer account, 
and a new cleared solution shall be calculated for the FTR auction (or auction round).   
 
If necessary, PJM shall repeat the auction clearing calculation.  PJM shall repeat these mark-to-
auction calculations subsequent to any secondary clearing calculation, and PJM shall require 
affected Market Participants to establish additional credit.  
 
Subsequent to final clearing of an FTR auction or an annual FTR auction round, PJM shall 
recalculate the FTR Credit Requirement for all FTR portfolios, and, as applicable, issue to each 
Market Participant a request for Collateral for the total amount by which the FTR Credit 
Requirement exceeds the credit allocated in any of the Market Participant's accounts.  The 
Market Participant must fulfill such demand by 4:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time on the 
following Business Day. 
 
If the request for Collateral is not satisfied within the applicable cure period referenced in 
Operating Agreement, section 15, then such Market Participant shall be restricted in all of its 
credit-screened transactions.  Specifically, such Market Participant may not engage in any 
Virtual Transactions or Export Transactions, or participate in RPM Auctions or other RPM 
activity.  Such Market Participant may engage only in the selling of open FTR positions, either in 
FTR auctions or bilaterally, provided such sales would reduce the Market Participant's FTR 
Credit Requirements.  PJM shall not return any Collateral to such Market Participant, and no 
payment shall be due or payable to such Market Participant, until its credit shortfall is remedied.  
Market Participant shall allocate any excess or unallocated Collateral to any of its account in 
which there is a credit shortfall.  Market Participants may remedy their credit shortfall at any 
time through provision of sufficient Collateral. 
 
If a Market Participant fails to satisfy a request for Collateral for two consecutive auctions of 
overlapping periods, e.g. two balance of Planning Period auctions, an annual FTR auction and a 
balance of Planning Period auction, or two long term FTR auctions, (for this purpose the four 
rounds of an annual FTR auction shall be considered a single auction), the Market Participant 
shall be declared in default of this Attachment Q.   
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VII 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
VII.  PEAK MARKET ACTIVITY AND WORKING CREDIT LIMIT 
 
A. Peak Market Activity Credit Requirement 
 
PJM shall calculate a Peak Market Activity credit requirement for each Participant.  Each 
Participant must maintain sufficient Unsecured Credit Allowance and/or Collateral, as 
applicable, and subject to the provisions herein, to satisfy its Peak Market Activity credit 
requirement. 
 
Peak Market Activity for Participants will be determined weekly, utilizing an initial Peak Market 
Activity, as explained in this section VII.A below.  Peak Market Activity shall be the greater of 
the initial Peak Market Activity, or the greatest amount invoiced for the Participant’s transaction 
activity for all PJM Markets and services in the rolling past one, two, three or four-week period.  
However, Peak Market Activity shall not exceed the greatest amount invoiced for the 
Participant’s transaction activity for all PJM Markets and services in any rolling one, two or 
three-week period in the prior 52 weeks.  
 
Peak Market Activity shall exclude FTR Net Activity, Virtual Transactions Net Activity, and 
Export Transactions Net Activity. 
 
Peak Market Activity = min [max [initial Peak Market Activity, max [greatest amount invoiced 
for transaction activity for the rolling past one, two, three, or four-week period]], max [greatest 
amount invoiced for transaction activity for any rolling one, two or three-week period in the prior 
52 weeks] 
 
When calculating Peak Market Activity, PJM may attribute credits for Regulation service to the 
days on which they were accrued, rather than including them in the month-end invoice. 
 
The initial Peak Market Activity for Applicants will be determined by PJM based on a review of 
an estimate of their transactional activity for all PJM Markets and services over the next 52 
weeks, which the Applicant shall provide to PJM.   
 
The initial Peak Market Activity for Market Participants and Transmission Customers, calculated 
weekly upon issuance of the weekly invoice, shall be the three-week average of all non-zero 
invoice totals over the previous 52 weeks.  
 
Prepayments shall not affect Peak Market Activity unless otherwise agreed to in writing pursuant 
to this Attachment Q. 
 
Peak Market Activity calculations shall take into account reductions of invoice values 
effectuated by early payments which are applied to reduce a Participant’s Peak Market Activity 
as contemplated by other terms of this Attachment Q; provided that the initial Peak Market 
Activity shall not be less than the average value calculated using the weeks for which no early 
payment was made.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VII 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 2 
A Participant may reduce its Collateral requirement by agreeing in writing (in a form acceptable 
to PJM) to make additional payments, including prepayments, as and when necessary to ensure 
that such Participant’s Total Net Obligation at no time exceeds such reduced Collateral 
requirement. 
 
In the event that the Peak Market Activity Shortfall exceeds or equals the Minimum Exposure, 
the prior week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement will be increased by an amount equal 
to n * the Minimum Transfer Amount, with n being the integer that will cause the current week’s 
Peak Market Activity credit requirement to be greater than or equal to the Participant’s current 
Peak Market Activity but less than the Participant’s current Peak Market Activity plus the 
Minimum Transfer Amount.  For the avoidance of doubt, if the Peak Market Activity Shortfall is 
less than the Minimum Exposure, the current week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement 
will remain the same as the prior week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement. 
 
In the event that the Peak Market Activity Surplus exceeds or equals the Minimum Transfer 
Amount, the prior week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement will be decreased by an 
amount equal to n * the Minimum Transfer Amount, with n being the integer that will cause the 
current week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement to be greater than or equal to the 
Participant’s current Peak Market Activity but less than the Participant’s current Peak Market 
Activity plus the Minimum Transfer Amount.  For the avoidance of doubt, if the Peak Market 
Activity Surplus is less than the Minimum Transfer Amount, the current week’s Peak Market 
Activity credit requirement will remain the same as the prior week’s Peak Market Activity credit 
requirement.  
 
In the event that there is neither a Peak Market Activity Shortfall nor a Peak Market Activity 
Surplus, then the current week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement is the same as the prior 
week’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement.  
 
PJM may, at its discretion, adjust a Participant’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement if PJM 
determines that the Peak Market Activity is not representative of such Participant’s expected 
activity, as a consequence of known, measurable, and sustained changes.  Such changes may 
include, but shall not be limited to when a Participant makes PJM aware of federal, state or local 
law that could affect the allocation of charges or credits from a Participant to another party,  the 
loss (without replacement) of short-term load contracts, when such contracts had terms of three 
months or more and were acquired through state-sponsored retail load programs, but shall not 
include short-term buying and selling activities. 
 
PJM may waive the credit requirements for a Participant that has no outstanding transactions and 
agrees in writing that it shall not, after the date of such agreement, incur obligations under any of 
the Agreements.  Such entity’s access to all electronic transaction systems administered by PJM 
shall be terminated. 
 
A Participant receiving unsecured credit may make early payments up to thirteen (13) times in a 
rolling 52-week period in order to reduce its Peak Market Activity for credit requirement 
purposes.  Imputed Peak Market Activity reductions for credit purposes will be applied to the 
billing period for which the payment was received.  Payments used as the basis for such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VII 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 3 
reductions must be received prior to issuance or posting of the invoice for the relevant billing 
period.  The imputed Peak Market Activity reduction attributed to any payment may not exceed 
the amount of Unsecured Credit for which the Participant is eligible. 
 
B. Working Credit Limit 
 
PJM will establish a Working Credit Limit for each Participant against which its Total Net 
Obligation will be monitored.   
 
If a Participant’s Total Net Obligation approaches its Working Credit Limit, PJM may require 
the Participant to make an advance payment or increase its Collateral in order to maintain its 
Total Net Obligation below its Working Credit Limit.  Except as explicitly provided herein, 
advance payments shall not serve to reduce the Participant’s Peak Market Activity for the 
purpose of calculating credit requirements. 
Example:  After ten (10) calendar days, and with five (5) calendar days remaining before 
the bill is due to be paid, a Participant approaches its $4.0 million Working Credit Limit.  
PJM may require a prepayment of $2.0 million in order that the Total Net Obligation will 
not exceed the Working Credit Limit.   
If a Participant exceeds its Working Credit Limit or is required to make advance payments more 
than ten times during a 52-week period, PJM may require Collateral in an amount as may be 
deemed reasonably necessary to support its Total Net Obligation. 
When calculating Total Net Obligation, PJM may attribute credits for Regulation service to the 
days on which they were accrued, rather than including them in the month-end invoice. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VIII 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
VIII. SUSPENSION OR LIMITATION ON MARKET PARTICIPATION 
 
If PJM determines that a Participant presents an unreasonable credit risk as determined pursuant 
to initial or ongoing risk evaluations, as described in section II above, or in the case of any other 
event which, after notice, lapse of time, or both, would result in an Event of Default, PJM will 
take steps to mitigate the exposure of any PJM Markets, which may include, but is not limited to, 
requiring Collateral, additional Collateral or Restricted Collateral or suspending or limiting the 
Market Participant’s ability to participate in the PJM Markets commensurate to the risk to any 
PJM Markets. 
 
If a Participant fails to reduce or eliminate any unreasonable credit risks to PJM’s satisfaction 
within the applicable cure period including without limitation by posting Collateral, additional 
Collateral or Restricted Collateral, PJM may treat such failure as an Event of Default.  
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant that transacts in FTRs will be eligible to request that 
PJM exempt or exclude FTR transactions of such Participant from the effect of any such 
limitations on market activity established by PJM, and PJM may but shall not be required to so 
exempt or exclude, any FTR transactions that the Participant reasonably demonstrates to PJM it 
has entered into to “hedge or mitigate commercial risk” arising from its transactions in the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market that are intended to result in the actual flow of physical energy or 
ancillary services in the PJM Region, as the phrase “hedge or mitigate commercial risks” is 
defined under the CFTC’s regulations defining the end-user exception to clearing set forth in 17 
C.F.R. §50.50(c).   
 
IX. REMEDIES FOR CREDIT BREACH, FINANCIAL DEFAULT OR CREDIT 
SUPPORT DEFAULT; REMEDIES FOR EVENTS OF DEFAULT; GENERAL 
BANKRUPTCY PROVISIONS 
 
If PJM determines that a Market Participant is in Credit Breach, or that a Financial Default or 
Credit Support Default exists, PJM may issue to the Market Participant a breach notice and/or a 
Collateral Call or demand for additional documentation or assurances. At such time, PJM may 
also suspend payments of any amounts due to the Participant and limit, restrict or rescind the 
Market Participant’s privileges to participate in any or all PJM Markets under the Agreements 
during any such cure period.  Failure to remedy the Credit Breach, Financial Default or to satisfy 
a Collateral Call or demand for additional documentation or assurances within the applicable 
cure period described in Operating Agreement, section 15.1.5, shall constitute an Event of 
Default.  If a Participant fails to meet the requirements of this Attachment Q, but then remedies 
the Credit Breach, Financial Default or Credit Support Default, or satisfies a Collateral Call or 
demand for additional documentation or assurances within the applicable cure period, then the 
Participant shall be deemed to again be in compliance with this Attachment Q, so long as no 
other Credit Breach, Financial Default, Credit Support Default or Collateral Call or demand for 
additional documentation or assurances has occurred and is continuing.   
 
Only one cure period shall apply to a single event giving rise to a Credit Breach, Financial 
Default or Credit Support Default.  Application of Collateral towards a Financial Default, Credit 
Breach or Credit Support Breach shall not be considered a cure of such Credit Breach, Financial 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VIII 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 2 
Default or Credit Support Default unless the Participant is determined by PJM to be in full 
compliance with all requirements of this Attachment Q after such application. 
 
When an Event of Default under this Attachment Q or one or more of the Agreements has 
occurred and is continuing, PJM may take such actions as may be required or permitted under 
the Agreements to protect the PJM Markets and the PJM Members, including but not limited to 
(a) suspension and/or termination of the Participant’s ongoing Transmission Service, (b) 
limitation, suspension and/or termination of participation in any PJM Markets, (c) taking all 
necessary steps to address the Market Participant’s market portfolio in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operating Agreement and PJM Tariff, including, but not limited to, allowing 
such portfolio’s positions to go to settlement, liquidating or otherwise resolving such portfolio 
positions, exercising judgment in the manner in which this is achieved in any PJM Markets.  
PJM may permit a defaulting Market Participant to continue to participate in PJM Markets: (a) in 
support of grid reliability, (b) when such Market Participant is a net market seller, (c) when such 
Market Participant has the ability to post collateral, or (d) to enable certain customers to continue 
to receive service prior to PJM receiving regulatory or legal approval to terminate. 
 
When an Event of Default under this Attachment Q or one or more of the Agreements has 
occurred and is continuing, PJM also has the immediate right to liquidate all or a portion of a 
Participant’s Collateral at its discretion to satisfy Total Net Obligations to PJM under this 
Attachment Q or one or more of the Agreements.  No remedy for an Event of Default is or shall 
be deemed to be exclusive of any other available remedy or remedies by contract or under 
applicable laws and regulations.  Each such remedy shall be distinct, separate and cumulative, 
shall not be deemed inconsistent with or in exclusion of any other available remedy, and shall be 
in addition to and separate and distinct from every other remedy.   
 
When an Event of Default under this Attachment Q or one or more of the Agreements has 
occurred and is continuing, PJM may continue to retain all payments due to a Participant as a 
cash security for all such Participant’s obligations under the Agreements (regardless of any 
restrictions placed on such Participant’s use of Collateral for any account, market activity or 
capitalization purpose); provided, however, that an Event of Default will not be deemed cured or 
no longer continuing because PJM is retaining amounts due the Participant, or because PJM has 
not yet applied Collateral or credit support to any amounts due PJM, unless PJM determines that 
the Participant has again satisfied all the Collateral requirements and application requirements as 
a new Applicant for participation in the PJM Markets, and consistent with the requirements and 
limitations of Operating Agreement, section 15. 
 
In Event of Default by a Participant, PJM may exercise any remedy or action allowed or 
prescribed by this Attachment Q immediately or following investigation and determination of an 
orderly exercise of such remedy or action.  Delay in exercising any allowed remedy or action 
shall not preclude PJM from exercising such remedy or action at a later time. 
 
PJM may hold a defaulting Participant’s Collateral for as long as such party’s positions exist and 
consistent with this Attachment Q, in order to protect the PJM Markets and PJM’s membership, 
and minimize or mitigate the impacts or potential impacts or risks associated with such Event of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VIII 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 3 
Default when an Event of Default under this Attachment Q or one or more of the Agreements 
has occurred and is continuing. 
 
PJM may apply towards an ongoing Event of Default any amounts that are held or later become 
available or due to the defaulting Participant through PJM's markets and systems.  
 
In order to cover the Participant’s Obligations, PJM may hold a Participant's Collateral 
indefinitely and specifically through the end of the billing period which includes the 90th day 
following the last day a Participant had activity, open positions, or accruing obligations (other 
than reconciliations and true-ups), until such Participant has satisfactorily paid any obligations 
invoiced through such period and until PJM determines that the Participant’s positions represent 
no risk exposure to the PJM Markets or the PJM Members.  Obligations incurred or accrued 
through such period shall survive any withdrawal from PJM.  When an Event of Default under 
this Attachment Q or one or more of the Agreements has occurred and is continuing, PJM may 
apply any Collateral to such Participant's Obligations, even if Participant had previously 
announced and effected its withdrawal from PJM. 
 
To protect PJM Members and PJM Markets from loss and harm due to uncertainty and delay 
which may be created upon a Participant’s bankruptcy, in the event a Participant becomes a 
debtor under the United States Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §§ 101-1532 (the “Bankruptcy 
Code”), whether voluntarily or involuntarily, the Participant should upon the commencement of 
the bankruptcy case immediately seek through a “first day” motion or motions, to the extent 
appropriate under the circumstances to provide PJM with prompt clarity as to its rights and 
treatment, the entry of an order of the bankruptcy court: (i) authorizing and directing the 
Participant to (a) make prompt and full payment of all pre-petition Obligations to PJM; and (b) 
fulfill all obligations under the Tariff and other Agreements in the ordinary course of business, 
including but not limited to deposit of additional Collateral post-petition; (ii) authorizing PJM to 
(x) require, hold and apply Collateral in accordance with this Attachment Q and (y) exercise 
setoff and recoupment to the fullest extent provided under the Tariff and other Agreements, and 
applicable nonbankruptcy law; and (iii) confirming the status of Agreements as a “forward 
contract”, “swap agreement”, or “master netting agreement” under the Bankruptcy Code, as 
applicable.    
 
In the event that a debtor Participant fails to file such a “first day” motion within one (1) 
Business Day of the commencement of the bankruptcy case, or the bankruptcy court does not 
enter an order granting the relief requested in such “first day” motion within seven (7) days 
thereof, PJM may file a motion for relief from the automatic stay under section 362(d) of the 
Bankruptcy Code, citing the lack of prompt clarity as “cause” thereunder, to the extent necessary 
to permit PJM to exercise any rights and remedies under the Tariff and other Agreements. 
 
X. FTR TRANSACTIONS AS FORWARD CONTRACTS AND/OR SWAP 
AGREEMENTS UNDER THE BANKRUPTCY CODE 
 
Under the terms of the Tariff, PJM Settlement is the counterparty to all transactions in PJM 
Markets, including but not limited to all FTR transactions, other than (i) any bilateral 
transactions between Participants, or (ii) with respect to self-supplied or self-scheduled 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VIII 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 4 
transactions reported to the Office of the Interconnection.  Pursuant to the “Final Order in 
Response to a Petition From Certain Independent System Operators and Regional Transmission 
Organizations To Exempt Specified Transactions Authorized by a Tariff or Protocol Approved 
by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or the Public Utility Commission of Texas From 
Certain Provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act Pursuant to the Authority Provided in the 
Act” 78 Fed. Reg. 19880 (April 2, 2013) (the “CFTC RTO/ISO Order”), the Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) exempts transactions offered or entered into in a market 
administered by PJM pursuant to the Tariff, including but not limited to FTR transactions, from 
the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act and the CFTC’s rules applicable to “swaps,” 
with the exception of the CFTC’s general anti-fraud and anti-manipulation authority and 
scienter-based prohibitions. 
 
Notwithstanding the CFTC RTO/ISO Order, all FTR transactions constitute “forward contracts” 
and/or “swap agreements” within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Code, and PJM shall be 
deemed to be a “forward contract merchant” and/or a “swap participant” within the meaning of 
the Bankruptcy Code for purposes of FTR transactions. 
 
Pursuant to this Attachment Q and other provisions of the Agreements, PJM  already has, and 
shall continue to have, the following rights (among other rights) with respect to a Market 
Participant’s Event of Default under those documents:  (a) the right to terminate, liquidate or 
otherwise resolve any FTR transaction or position held by that Market Participant, including by 
allowing such position to go to settlement; (b) the right to immediately proceed against any 
Collateral and additional financial assurance provided by that Market Participant; (c) the right to 
set off or recoup any obligations due and owing to that Market Participant pursuant to any 
forward contract, swap agreement, or similar agreement against any amounts due and owing by 
that Market Participant pursuant to any forward contract, swap agreement, or similar agreement, 
such arrangement to constitute a “master netting agreement” within the meaning of the 
Bankruptcy Code; and (d) the right to suspend or limit that Market Participant from entering into 
further FTR transactions.   
 
For the avoidance of doubt, upon the commencement of a voluntary or involuntary proceeding 
for a Market Participant under the Bankruptcy Code, and without limiting any other rights of 
PJM  or obligations of any Market Participant under the Tariff (including this Attachment Q) or 
other Agreements, PJM may exercise any of its rights against such Market Participant, including, 
without limitation (1) the right to terminate, liquidate or otherwise resolve any FTR transaction 
or position held by that Market Participant, including by allowing such position to go to 
settlement, (2) the right to immediately proceed against any Collateral and additional financial 
assurance provided by that Market Participant, (3) the right to set off or recoup any obligations 
due and owing to that Market Participant pursuant to any forward contract, swap agreement 
and/or master netting agreement against any amounts due and owing by that Market Participant 
with respect to an FTR transaction including as a result of the actions taken by PJM  pursuant to 
(1) above, and (4) the right to suspend or limit that Market Participant from entering into future 
FTR transactions. 
 
For purposes of the Bankruptcy Code, all transactions, including but not limited to FTR 
transactions, between PJM, on the one hand, and a Market Participant, on the other hand, are 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.VIII 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 5 
intended to be, and are, part of a single integrated agreement, and together with the Agreements 
constitute a “master netting agreement.”  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; R --> 
OATT ATTACHMENT Q.IX 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
XI. DISCLOSURE OF CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION TO FERC- 
 JURISDICTIONAL REGIONAL TRANSMISSION OPERATORS AND 
 INDEPENDENT SYSTEM OPERATORS 
 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Tariff or in the Operating Agreement, PJM is 
 permitted to share credit-related information of Members, Market Participants, and Applicants, 
 including, without limitation, information of the respective Affiliates of the foregoing, with other 
FERC-jurisdictional RTOs and ISOs for the purpose of credit risk management and mitigation. 
 PJM is permitted to use credit-related information received from other FERC-jurisdictional 
 RTOs and ISOs to the same extent and for the same purposes that it may use credit-related 
 information received from its Members, Market Participants, and Applicants. PJM will treat 
 credit-related information received from other FERC-jurisdictional RTOs and ISOs as 
 confidential information to the same extent as it would treat such information if it were received 
directly from one of its Members, Market Participants or Applicants. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.X 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
X. FTR TRANSACTIONS AS FORWARD CONTRACTS AND/OR SWAP 
AGREEMENTS UNDER THE BANKRUPTCY CODE 
 
Under the terms of the Tariff, PJM Settlement is the counterparty to all transactions in PJM 
Markets, including but not limited to all FTR transactions, other than (i) any bilateral 
transactions between Participants, or (ii) with respect to self-supplied or self-scheduled 
transactions reported to the Office of the Interconnection.  Pursuant to the “Final Order in 
Response to a Petition From Certain Independent System Operators and Regional Transmission 
Organizations To Exempt Specified Transactions Authorized by a Tariff or Protocol Approved 
by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or the Public Utility Commission of Texas From 
Certain Provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act Pursuant to the Authority Provided in the 
Act” 78 Fed. Reg. 19880 (April 2, 2013) (the “CFTC RTO/ISO Order”), the Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) exempts transactions offered or entered into in a market 
administered by PJM pursuant to the Tariff, including but not limited to FTR transactions, from 
the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act and the CFTC’s rules applicable to “swaps,” 
with the exception of the CFTC’s general anti-fraud and anti-manipulation authority and 
scienter-based prohibitions. 
 
Notwithstanding the CFTC RTO/ISO Order, all FTR transactions constitute “forward contracts” 
and/or “swap agreements” within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Code, and PJM shall be 
deemed to be a “forward contract merchant” and/or a “swap participant” within the meaning of 
the Bankruptcy Code for purposes of FTR transactions. 
 
Pursuant to this Attachment Q and other provisions of the Agreements, PJM  already has, and 
shall continue to have, the following rights (among other rights) with respect to a Market 
Participant’s Event of Default under those documents:  (a) the right to terminate, liquidate or 
otherwise resolve any FTR transaction or position held by that Market Participant, including by 
allowing such position to go to settlement; (b) the right to immediately proceed against any 
Collateral and additional financial assurance provided by that Market Participant; (c) the right to 
set off or recoup any obligations due and owing to that Market Participant pursuant to any 
forward contract, swap agreement, or similar agreement against any amounts due and owing by 
that Market Participant pursuant to any forward contract, swap agreement, or similar agreement, 
such arrangement to constitute a “master netting agreement” within the meaning of the 
Bankruptcy Code; and (d) the right to suspend or limit that Market Participant from entering into 
further FTR transactions.   
 
For the avoidance of doubt, upon the commencement of a voluntary or involuntary proceeding 
for a Market Participant under the Bankruptcy Code, and without limiting any other rights of 
PJM  or obligations of any Market Participant under the Tariff (including this Attachment Q) or 
other Agreements, PJM may exercise any of its rights against such Market Participant, including, 
without limitation (1) the right to terminate, liquidate or otherwise resolve any FTR transaction 
or position held by that Market Participant, including by allowing such position to go to 
settlement, (2) the right to immediately proceed against any Collateral and additional financial 
assurance provided by that Market Participant, (3) the right to set off or recoup any obligations 
due and owing to that Market Participant pursuant to any forward contract, swap agreement 
and/or master netting agreement against any amounts due and owing by that Market Participant 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.X 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 2 
with respect to an FTR transaction including as a result of the actions taken by PJM  pursuant to 
(1) above, and (4) the right to suspend or limit that Market Participant from entering into future 
FTR transactions. 
 
For purposes of the Bankruptcy Code, all transactions, including but not limited to FTR 
transactions, between PJM, on the one hand, and a Market Participant, on the other hand, are 
intended to be, and are, part of a single integrated agreement, and together with the Agreements 
constitute a “master netting agreement.”  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.XI 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
 
XI. DISCLOSURE OF CREDIT-RELATED INFORMATION TO FERC-
JURISDICTIONAL REGIONAL TRANSMISSION OPERATORS AND 
INDEPENDENT SYSTEM OPERATORS 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Tariff or in the Operating Agreement, PJM is 
permitted to share credit-related information of Members, Market Participants, and Applicants, 
including, without limitation, information of the respective Affiliates of the foregoing, with other 
FERC-jurisdictional RTOs and ISOs for the purpose of credit risk management and mitigation.   
 
PJM is permitted to use credit-related information received from other FERC-jurisdictional 
RTOs and ISOs to the same extent and for the same purposes that it may use credit-related 
information received from its Members, Market Participants, and Applicants. PJM will treat 
credit-related information received from other FERC-jurisdictional RTOs and ISOs as 
confidential information to the same extent as it would treat such information if it were received 
directly from one of its Members, Market Participants or Applicants. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.APPX1 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 1 
Attachment Q  
Appendix 1 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.APPX1 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 2 
PJM MINIMUM PARTICIPATION CRITERIA  
ANNUAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
I, ______________________________________________, a duly authorized officer of 
Participant, understanding that PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. and PJMSettlement, Inc. 
(“PJMSettlement”) are relying on this certification as evidence that Participant meets the minimum 
requirements set forth in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff ("PJM Tariff"), Attachment 
Q hereby certify that I have full authority to represent on behalf of Participant and further represent 
as follows, as evidenced by my initialing each representation in the space provided below:  
 
1.  All employees or agents transacting in markets or services provided pursuant to the PJM 
Tariff or PJM Amended and Restated Operating Agreement (“PJM Operating Agreement”) 
on behalf of the Participant have received appropriate training and are authorized to 
transact on behalf of Participant.  As used in this representation, the term “appropriate” as 
used with respect to training means training that is (i) comparable to generally accepted 
practices in the energy trading industry, and (ii) commensurate and proportional in 
sophistication, scope and frequency to the volume of transactions and the nature and extent 
of the risk taken by the participant._________ 
 
2. Participant has written risk management policies, procedures, and controls, approved by 
Participant’s independent risk management function and applicable to transactions in any 
PJM Markets in which it participates and for which employees or agents transacting in 
markets or services provided pursuant to the PJM Tariff or PJM Operating Agreement have 
been trained, that provide an appropriate, comprehensive risk management framework that, 
at a minimum, clearly identifies and documents the range of risks to which Participant is 
exposed, including, but not limited to credit risks, liquidity risks and market risks.  As used 
in this representation, a Participant’s “independent risk management function” can include 
appropriate corporate persons or bodies that are independent of the Participant’s trading 
functions, such as a risk management committee, a risk officer, a Participant’s board or 
board committee, or a board or committee of the Participant’s parent company. 
 
a. Participant is providing to PJM or PJMSettlement, in accordance with Tariff, 
Attachment Q, section III, with this Annual Officer Certification Form, a copy of its 
current governing risk management policies, procedures and controls applicable to its 
activities in any PJM Markets pursuant to Attachment Q or because there have been 
substantive changes made to such policies, procedures and controls applicable to its 
market activities since they were last provided to PJM.__________    
 
b. If the risk management policies, procedures and controls applicable to 
Participant’s market activities submitted to PJM or PJMSettlement were submitted 
prior to the current certification, Participant certifies that no substantive changes have 
been made to such policies, procedures and controls applicable to its market activities 
since such submission.__________ 
Participant Name: ____________________________________________ ("Participant")

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.APPX1 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 3 
 
3. An FTR Participant must make either the following 3.a. or 3.b. additional representations, 
evidenced by the undersigned officer initialing either the one 3.a. representation or the four 
3.b. representations in the spaces provided below:  
 
a.  Participant transacts in PJM’s FTR markets with the sole intent to hedge 
congestion risk in connection with either obligations Participant has to serve load 
or rights Participant has to generate electricity in the PJM Region (“physical 
transactions”) and monitors all of the Participant’s FTR market activity to 
endeavor to ensure that its FTR positions, considering both the size and pathways 
of the positions, are either generally proportionate to or generally do not exceed 
the Participant’s physical transactions, and remain generally consistent with the 
Participant’s intention to hedge its physical transactions.__________ 
 
b. On no less than a weekly basis, Participant values its FTR positions and 
engages in a probabilistic assessment of the hypothetical risk of such positions 
using analytically based methodologies, predicated on the use of industry 
accepted valuation methodologies.__________ 
 
Such valuation and risk assessment functions are performed either by persons 
within Participant’s organization independent from those trading in PJM’s FTR 
markets or by an outside firm qualified and with expertise in this area of risk 
management.__________  
 
Having valued its FTR positions and quantified their hypothetical risks, 
Participant applies its written policies, procedures and controls to limit its risks 
using industry recognized practices, such as value-at-risk limitations, 
concentration limits, or other controls designed to prevent Participant from 
purposefully or unintentionally taking on risk that is not commensurate or 
proportional to Participant’s financial capability to manage such risk.__________ 
 
Exceptions to Participant’s written risk policies, procedures and controls 
applicable to Participant’s FTR positions are documented and explain a reasoned 
basis for the granting of any exception.__________    
 
4. Participant has appropriate personnel resources, operating procedures and technical 
abilities to promptly and effectively respond to all PJM and PJMSettlement 
communications and directions.__________ 
 
5. Participant has demonstrated compliance with the Minimum Capitalization criteria set 
forth in Tariff, Attachment Q that are applicable to any PJM Markets in which Participant 
transacts, and is not aware of any change having occurred or being imminent that would 
invalidate such compliance.__________ 
 
6. All Participants must certify and initial in at least one of the five sections below: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.APPX1 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 4 
a. I certify that Participant qualifies as an “appropriate person” as that term is defined 
under section 4(c)(3), or successor provision, of the Commodity Exchange Act or an 
“eligible contract participant” as that term is defined under section 1a(18), or 
successor provision, of the Commodity Exchange Act.  I certify that Participant will 
cease transacting in any PJM Markets and notify PJM and PJMSettlement 
immediately if Participant no longer qualifies as an “appropriate person” or “eligible 
contract participant.”__________ 
 
If providing audited financial statements, which shall be in US GAAP format or any 
other format acceptable to PJM, to support Participant’s certification of qualification 
as an “appropriate person:” 
 
I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, that the audited financial 
statements provided to PJM and/or PJMSettlement present fairly, pursuant to such 
disclosures in such audited financial statements, the financial position of 
Participant as of the date of those audited financial statements.  Further, I certify 
that Participant continues to maintain the minimum $1 million total net worth 
and/or $5 million total asset levels reflected in these audited financial statements 
as of the date of this certification.  I acknowledge that both PJM and 
PJMSettlement are relying upon my certification to maintain compliance with 
federal regulatory requirements.__________ 
 
If not providing audited financial statements to support Participant’s certification of 
qualification as an “appropriate person,” Participant certifies that they qualify as an 
“appropriate person” under one of the entities defined in section 4(c)(3)(A)-(J) of the 
Commodities Exchange Act. __________ 
 
If providing audited financial statements, which shall be in US GAAP format or any 
other format acceptable to PJM, to support Participant’s certification of qualification 
as an “eligible contract participant:” 
 
I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, that the audited financial 
statements provided to PJM and/or PJMSettlement present fairly, pursuant to such 
disclosures in such audited financial statements, the financial position of 
Participant as of the date of those audited financial statements.  Further, I certify 
that Participant continues to maintain the minimum $1 million total net worth 
and/or $10 million total asset levels reflected in these audited financial statements 
as of the date of this certification.  I acknowledge that both PJM and 
PJMSettlement are relying upon my certification to maintain compliance with 
federal regulatory requirements.__________ 
 
If not providing audited financial statements to support Participant’s certification 
of qualification as an “eligible contract participant,” Participant certifies that they 
qualify as an “eligible contract participant” under one of the entities defined in 
section 1a(18)(A) of the Commodities Exchange Act. __________ 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.APPX1 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 5 
b. I certify that Participant has provided an unlimited Corporate Guaranty in a form 
acceptable to PJM as described in Tariff, Attachment Q, section III.D from an issuer 
that has at least $1 million of total net worth or $5 million of total assets per 
Participant for which the issuer has issued an unlimited Corporate Guaranty.  I also 
certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, that the audited financial statements 
provided to PJM and/or PJMSettlement present fairly, pursuant to such disclosures in 
such audited financial statements, the financial position of the issuer as of the date of 
those audited financial statements.  Further, I certify that Participant will cease 
transacting PJM’s Markets and notify PJM and PJMSettlement immediately if issuer 
of the unlimited Corporate Guaranty for Participant no longer has at least $1 million 
of total net worth or $5 million of total assets per Participant for which the issuer has 
issued an unlimited Corporate Guaranty.__________ 
 
I certify that the issuer of the unlimited Corporate Guaranty to Participant continues 
to have at least $1 million of total net worth or $5 million of total assets per 
Participant for which the issuer has issued an unlimited Corporate Guaranty.  I 
acknowledge that PJM and PJMSettlement are relying upon my certifications to 
maintain compliance with federal regulatory requirements.__________ 
 
c. I certify that Participant fulfills the eligibility requirements of the Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission exemption order (78 F.R. 19880 – April 2, 2013) by being in 
the business of at least one of the following in the PJM Region as indicated below 
(initial those applicable): 
 
1. Generating electric energy, including Participants that resell physical energy 
acquired from an entity generating electric energy:__________ 
 
2. Transmitting electric energy:__________ 
 
3. Distributing electric energy delivered under Point-to-Point or Network 
Integration Transmission Service, including scheduled import, export and 
wheel through transactions:__________ 
 
4. Other electric energy services that are necessary to support the reliable 
operation of the transmission system:__________ 
 
Description only if c(4) is initialed: 
 
______________________________________________________________ 
 
Further, I certify that Participant will cease transacting in any PJM Markets and notify 
PJM and PJMSettlement immediately if Participant no longer performs at least one of 
the functions noted above in the PJM Region.  I acknowledge that PJM and 
PJMSettlement are relying on my certification to maintain compliance with federal 
energy regulatory requirements.__________ 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT Q.APPX1 
Effective Date: 2/11/2026 - Docket #: ER26-743-000 - Page 6 
d. I certify that Participant has provided a Letter of Credit of $5 million or more to PJM 
or PJMSettlement in a form acceptable to PJM and/or PJMSettlement as described in 
Tariff, Attachment Q, section V.B that the Participant acknowledges cannot be 
utilized to meet its credit requirements to PJM and PJMSettlement.  I acknowledge 
that PJM and PJMSettlement are relying on the provision of this letter of credit and 
my certification to maintain compliance with federal regulatory 
requirements.__________ 
 
e. I certify that Participant has provided a surety bond of $5 million or more to PJM or 
PJMSettlement in a form acceptable to PJM and/or PJMSettlement as described in 
Tariff, Attachment Q, section V.D. that the Participant acknowledges cannot be 
utilized to meet its credit requirements to PJM and PJMSettlement.  I acknowledge 
that PJM and PJMSettlement are relying on the provision of this surety bond and my 
certification to maintain compliance with federal regulatory  
requirements. __________ 
 
7. I acknowledge that I have read and understood the provisions of Tariff, Attachment Q 
applicable to Participant's business in any PJM Markets, including those provisions 
describing PJM’s Minimum Participation Requirements and the enforcement actions 
available to PJM and PJMSettlement of a Participant not satisfying those requirements.  I 
acknowledge that the information provided herein is true and accurate to the best of my 
belief and knowledge after due investigation.  In addition, by signing this certification, I 
acknowledge the potential consequences of making incomplete or false statements in this 
Certification.__________ 
 
 
Date: ____________________________  __________________________________ 
        Participant (Signature) 
 
     Print Name: __________________________________ 
     Title:  __________________________________ 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT R 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
ATTACHMENT R 
 
Lost Revenues Of PJM Transmission Owners And Distribution of Revenues  
Remitted By MISO, SECA Rates to Collect PJM Transmission Owner Lost  
Revenues Under Attachment X, And Revenues From PJM Existing Transactions 
 
1) Lost Revenues 
 
 a) The PJM Transmission Owners' lost revenues for purposes of calculating Seams 
Elimination Charge/Cost Adjustments/Assignment ("SECA") charges to recover such lost 
revenues by the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (“MISO”) are shown 
in Table 1 of this Attachment R.  The PJM Transmission Owners' lost revenues for the purposes 
of calculating SECA rates under Attachment X to recover lost revenues among the PJM 