ATTACHMENT H-A 
 
Annual Transmission Rates -- Non-Zone Network Load 
for Network Integration Transmission Service 
 
1.  The rate for Network Integration Transmission Service to Non-Zone Network Load is the 
Border Yearly Charge established pursuant to Schedule 7 of the PJM Tariff stated in 
dollars per megawatt per year. 
 
2.  The Transmission Provider shall update the rate for Network Integration Transmission 
Service to Non-Zone Network Load annually effective January 1 in accordance with the 
procedures for updating the Border Yearly Charge set forth in Schedule 7.  Once updated, 
the rate for Network Integration Transmission Service to Non-Zone Network Load shall 
remain in effect for the remainder of the calendar year in accordance with Schedule 7. 
 
3.  The rate for Network Integration Transmission Service to Non-Zone Network Load 
determined under this Attachment H-A includes all Transmission Enhancements Charges 
applicable to such service, but does not does not relieve any Transmission Customer or 
Merchant Transmission Facility of responsibility for Transmission Enhancement Charges 
assigned to such Merchant Transmission Facility pursuant to Schedule 12 of the PJM 
Tariff. 
 
4.  Customers taking Network Integration Transmission Service to Non-Zone Network Load 
utilizing a Merchant Transmission Facility holding Firm Transmission Withdrawal 
Rights shall receive a credit determined in accordance with the formula set forth in 
Section (11) of Schedule 7. 
 
5.  The rate in section 1 shall be effective until modified by a filing under Section 205 of the 
Federal Power Act authorized by the PJM Transmission Owners Agreement-
Administrative Committee in accordance with Section 8.5 of the Consolidated 
Transmission owners Agreement and approved by the Commission. 
 
6. In addition to the rate set forth in section 1 of this attachment, the Network Customer 
purchasing Network Integration Transmission Service shall pay for transmission 
congestion charges, in accordance with the provisions of the Tariff, and any amounts 
necessary to reimburse the Transmission Owners for any amounts payable by them as 
sales, excise, “Btu,” carbon, value-added or similar taxes (other than taxes based upon or 
measured by net income) with respect to the amounts payable pursuant to the Tariff. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT I 
Effective Date: 4/18/2019 - Docket #: ER19-1599-000 - Page 1 
