[ATTACHMENT I - Part 2 of 12]

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.5A Economic Load Resp 
Effective Date: 5/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-1987-000 - Page 10 
end-use customer within the aggregation shall have the ability to reduce more than 0.099 
megawatt of load unless the Curtailment Service Provider, Load Serving Entity and PJM 
approve; 
 
 vi. Each end-use customer site must meet the requirements for market 
participation by an Economic Load Response Participant resource except for the 0.1 
megawatt minimum load reduction requirement for energy or the 0.1 megawatt minimum 
load reduction requirement for Ancillary Services; and 
 
 vii. An end-use customer’s participation in the Energy and Ancillary Services 
markets shall be administered under one economic registration. 
 
1.5A.10.01 Aggregation for Economic Load Response Regulation Only Registrations 
The purpose for aggregation is to allow the participation of end-use customers in the Regulation 
market that can provide less than 0.1 megawatt of demand response when they currently have no 
alternative opportunity to participate on an individual basis. Aggregations pursuant to section 
1.5A.1 above shall be subject to the following requirements: 
 
i. All end-use customers in an aggregation shall be specifically identified; 
ii. All end-use customers in the aggregation must be served by the same electric 
distribution company and must also be part of the same Transmission Zone; and  
iii. Each end-use customer site must meet the requirements for market participation 
by an Economic Load Response Participant resource except for the 0.1 megawatt 
minimum load reduction requirement for Regulation service. 
 
1.5A.11 Reporting 
 
  (a) PJM will post on its website a report of demand response activity, and will 
provide a summary thereof to the PJM Markets and Reliability Committee on an annual basis. 
 
  (b) As PJM receives evidence from the electric distribution companies or Load 
Serving Entities pursuant to section 1.5A.3 above, PJM will post on its website a list of those 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authorities that the electric distribution companies or Load 
Serving Entities assert prohibit or condition retail participation in PJM’s Economic Load 
Response Program together with a corresponding reference to the Relevant Electric Retail 
Regulatory Authority evidence that is provided to PJM by the electric distribution companies or 
Load Serving Entities. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.6 Office of the Interc 
Effective Date: 11/4/2014 - Docket #: ER14-623-001 - Page 1 
1.6 Office of the Interconnection. 
 
1.6.1 Operation of the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall operate the PJM Interchange Energy Market in 
accordance with this Agreement.  
 
1.6.2 Scope of Services. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall perform the services pertaining to the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market specified in this Agreement, including but not limited to the following:  
 
 i) Administer the PJM Interchange Energy Market as part of the PJM Region, 
including scheduling and dispatching of generation resources, accounting for transactions, 
maintaining appropriate records, and monitoring the compliance of Market Participants with the 
provisions of this Agreement, all in accordance with applicable provisions of the Operating 
Agreement, and the Schedules to this Agreement; 
 
 ii) Review and evaluate the qualification of entities to be Market Buyers, Market 
Sellers, or Economic Load Response Participants under applicable provisions of this Agreement; 
 
 iii) Coordinate, in accordance with applicable provisions of this Agreement, the 
Reliability Assurance Agreement, and the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, 
maintenance schedules for generation and transmission resources operated as part of the PJM 
Region; 
 
 iv) Provide or coordinate the provision of ancillary services necessary for the 
operation of the PJM Region or the PJM Interchange Energy Market; 
 
 v) Determine and declare that an Emergency is expected to exist, exists, or has 
ceased to exist, in all or any part of the PJM Region, or in another directly or indirectly 
interconnected Control Area and serve as a primary point of contact for interested state or federal 
agencies;  
 
 vi) Administer (a) agreements for the transfer of energy in conditions constituting an 
Emergency in the PJM Region or in an interconnected Control Area, and the mutual provision of 
other support in such Emergency conditions with other interconnected Control Areas, and (b) 
purchases of Emergency energy offered by Members from resources that are not Capacity 
Resources in conditions constituting an Emergency in the PJM Region; 
 
 vii) Coordinate the curtailment or shedding of load, or other measures appropriate to 
alleviate an Emergency, in order to preserve reliability in accordance with NERC, or Applicable 
Regional Entity principles, guidelines and standards, and to ensure the operation of the PJM 
Region in accordance with Good Utility Practice and this Agreement; 
 
 viii) Protect confidential information as specified in this Agreement; and  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.6 Office of the Interc 
Effective Date: 11/4/2014 - Docket #: ER14-623-001 - Page 2 
 
 ix) Send a representative to meetings of the Members Committee or other 
Committees, subcommittees, or working groups specified in this Agreement or formed by the 
Members Committee when requested to do so by the chair or other head of such committee or 
other group; 
 
and 
 
x) Coordinate with adjacent Control Areas on Coordinated Transaction Scheduling 
(“CTS”) and forecast price calculations, in accordance with the procedures of Section 1.13 of 
this Schedule 1 of this Agreement. 
 
1.6.3 Records and Reports. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall prepare and maintain such records and prepare such 
reports, including, but not limited to quarterly budget reports, as are required to document the 
performance of its obligations to the Market Participants hereunder in a form adopted by the 
Office of the Interconnection upon consideration of the advice and recommendations of the 
Members Committee.  The Office of the Interconnection shall also produce special reports 
reasonably requested by the Members Committee and consistent with FERC’s standards of 
conduct; provided, however, the Market Participants shall reimburse the Office of the 
Interconnection for the costs of producing any such report.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall not be required to disclose confidential or commercially 
sensitive information in any such report. 
 
1.6.4 PJM Manuals. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall prepare, maintain and update the PJM Manuals consistent 
with this Agreement.  The PJM Manuals shall be available for inspection by the Market 
Participants, regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the LLC or any Member, and the 
public. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.6A PJMSettlement 
Effective Date: 11/4/2014 - Docket #: ER14-623-001 - Page 1 
1.6A PJMSettlement 
 
1.6A.1 Scope of Services 
 
PJMSettlement shall perform the services pertaining to the PJM Interchange Energy Market 
specified in this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the following: 
 
 (i) PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to transactions (including 
ancillary services transactions and Coordinated External Transactions) in the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market administered by the Office of the Interconnection;  
 
 (ii) PJMSettlement shall render bills to the Market Participants, receiving 
payments from and disbursing payments to the Market Participants; and  
 
(iii) For purposes of clarity, PJMSettlement shall not be a Counterparty to (i) 
any bilateral transactions between Market Participants, or (ii) with respect to self-supplied or 
self-scheduled transactions reported to the Office of the Interconnection.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 1 
1.7 General. 
 
1.7.1 Market Sellers. 
 
Only Market Sellers shall be eligible to submit offers to the Office of the Interconnection for the 
sale of electric energy or related services in the PJM Interchange Energy Market.  Market Sellers 
shall comply with the prices, terms, and operating characteristics of all Offer Data submitted to 
and accepted by the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
1.7.2 Market Buyers. 
 
Only Market Buyers, Energy Storage Resources, and Market Participants purchasing Direct 
Charging Energy to charge Open-Loop Hybrid Resources shall be eligible to purchase energy or 
related services in the PJM Interchange Energy Market.  Market Buyers shall comply with all 
requirements for making purchases from the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
1.7.2A Economic Load Response Participants. 
 
Only Economic Load Response Participants shall be eligible to participate in the Real-time 
Energy Market and the Day-ahead Energy Market by submitting offers to the Office of the 
Interconnection to reduce demand. 
 
1.7.2B Energy Storage Resources and Open-Loop Hybrid Resources. 
 
Energy purchased from the PJM Interchange Energy Market by a Market Participant of an Open-
Loop Hybrid Resource for charging such resource, or that an Energy Storage Resource purchases 
from the PJM Interchange Energy Market, must be Direct Charging Energy.  Energy Storage 
Resources and Open-Loop Hybrid Resources shall comply with all requirements for making 
purchases from the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
1.7.3 Agents. 
 
A Market Participant may participate in the PJM Interchange Energy Market through an agent, 
provided that the Market Participant informs the Office of the Interconnection in advance in 
writing of the appointment of such agent.  A Market Participant participating in the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market through an agent shall be bound by all of the acts or representations 
of such agent with respect to transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market, and shall 
ensure that any such agent complies with the requirements of this Agreement. 
 
1.7.4 General Obligations of the Market Participants. 
 
  (a) In performing its obligations to the Office of the Interconnection hereunder, each 
Market Participant shall at all times (i) follow Good Utility Practice, (ii) comply with all 
applicable laws and regulations, (iii) comply with the applicable principles, guidelines, standards 
and requirements of FERC, NERC and each Applicable Regional Entity, (iv) comply with the 
procedures established for operation of the PJM Interchange Energy Market and PJM Region 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 2 
and (v) cooperate with the Office of the Interconnection as necessary for the operation of the 
PJM Region in a safe, reliable manner consistent with Good Utility Practice. 
 
  (b) Market Participants shall undertake all operations in or affecting the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market and the PJM Region including but not limited to compliance with all 
Emergency procedures, in accordance with the power and authority of the Office of the 
Interconnection with respect to the operation of the PJM Interchange Energy Market and the 
PJM Region as established in this Agreement, and as specified in the Schedules to this 
Agreement and the PJM Manuals.  Failure to comply with the foregoing operational 
requirements shall subject a Market Participant to such reasonable charges or other remedies or 
sanctions for non-compliance as may be established by the PJM Board, including legal or 
regulatory proceedings as authorized by the PJM Board to enforce the obligations of this 
Agreement. 
 
  (c) The Office of the Interconnection may establish such committees with a 
representative of each Market Participant, and the Market Participants agree to provide 
appropriately qualified personnel for such committees, as may be necessary for the Office of the 
Interconnection and PJMSettlement to perform its obligations hereunder. 
 
  (d) All Market Participants shall provide to the Office of the Interconnection the 
scheduling and other information specified in the Schedules to this Agreement, and such other 
information as the Office of the Interconnection may reasonably require for the reliable and 
efficient operation of the PJM Region and PJM Interchange Energy Market, and for compliance 
with applicable regulatory requirements for posting market and related information.  Such 
information shall be provided as much in advance as possible, but in no event later than the 
deadlines established by the Schedules to this Agreement, or by the Office of the Interconnection 
in conformance with such Schedules.  Such information shall include, but not be limited to, 
maintenance and other anticipated outages of generation or transmission facilities, scheduling 
and related information on bilateral transactions and self-scheduled resources, and 
implementation of interruption of load, Price Responsive Demand, Economic Load Response 
Participant resources, and other load reduction measures.  The Office of the Interconnection shall 
abide by appropriate requirements for the non-disclosure and protection of any confidential or 
proprietary information given to the Office of the Interconnection by a Market Participant.  Each 
Market Participant shall maintain or cause to be maintained compatible information and 
communications systems, as specified by the Office of the Interconnection, required to transmit 
scheduling, dispatch, or other time-sensitive information to the Office of the Interconnection in a 
timely manner.  Market Participants that request additional information or communications 
system access or connections beyond those which are required by the Office of the 
Interconnection for reliability in the operation of the LLC or the Office of the Interconnection, 
including but not limited to PJMnet or Internet SCADA connections, shall be solely responsible 
for the cost of such additional access and connections and for purchasing, leasing, installing and 
maintaining any associated facilities and equipment, which shall remain the property of the 
Market Participant. 
 
  (e) Subject to the requirements for Economic Load Response Participants in section 
1.5A above, each Market Participant shall install and operate, or shall otherwise arrange for, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 3 
metering and related equipment capable of recording and transmitting all voice and data 
communications reasonably necessary for the Office of the Interconnection and PJMSettlement 
to perform the services specified in this Agreement.  A Market Participant that elects to be 
separately billed for its PJM Interchange shall, to the extent necessary, be individually metered in 
accordance with Operating Agreement, section 14, or shall agree upon an allocation of PJM 
Interchange between it and the Market Participant through whose meters the unmetered Market 
Participant’s PJM Interchange is delivered.  The Office of the Interconnection shall be notified of 
the allocation by the foregoing Market Participants. 
 
  (f) Each Market Participant shall operate, or shall cause to be operated, any 
generating resources owned or controlled by such Market Participant that are within the PJM 
Region or otherwise supplying energy to or through the PJM Region in a manner that is 
consistent with the standards, requirements or directions of the Office of the Interconnection and 
that will permit the Office of the Interconnection to perform its obligations under this 
Agreement; provided, however, no Market Participant shall be required to take any action that is 
inconsistent with Good Utility Practice or applicable law. 
 
  (g) Each Market Participant shall follow the directions of the Office of the 
Interconnection to take actions to prevent, manage, alleviate or end an Emergency in a manner 
consistent with this Agreement and the procedures of the PJM Region as specified in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
  (h) Each Market Participant shall obtain and maintain all permits, licenses or 
approvals required for the Market Participant to participate in the PJM Interchange Energy 
Market in the manner contemplated by this Agreement. 
 
(i) Consistent with Tariff, section 36.1.1, to the extent its generating facility is 
dispatchable, a Market Participant shall submit an Economic Minimum in the Real-time Energy 
Market that is no greater than the higher of its physical operating minimum or its Capacity 
Interconnection Rights, as that term is defined in the PJM Tariff, associated with such generating 
facility under its Interconnection Service Agreement under Attachment O of the PJM Tariff or a 
wholesale market participation agreement. 
 
1.7.5 Market Operations Center. 
 
Each Market Participant shall maintain a Market Operations Center, or shall make appropriate 
arrangements for the performance of such services on its behalf.  A Market Operations Center 
shall meet the performance, equipment, communications, staffing and training standards and 
requirements specified in this Agreement, and as may be further described in the PJM Manuals, 
for the scheduling and completion of transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market and the 
maintenance of the reliable operation of the PJM Region, and shall be sufficient to enable (i) a 
Market Seller or an Economic Load Response Participant to perform all terms and conditions of 
its offers to the PJM Interchange Energy Market, and (ii) a Market Buyer or an Economic Load 
Response Participant to conform to the requirements for purchasing from the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 4 
1.7.6 Scheduling and Dispatching. 
 
  (a) The Office of the Interconnection shall schedule and dispatch in real-time 
generation resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources economically on the 
basis of least-cost, security-constrained dispatch and the prices and operating characteristics 
offered by Market Sellers, continuing until sufficient generation resources and/or Economic 
Load Response Participant resources are dispatched to serve the PJM Interchange Energy Market 
energy purchase requirements under normal system conditions of the Market Buyers (taking into 
account any reductions to such requirements in accordance with PRD Curves properly submitted 
by PRD Providers), as well as the requirements of the PJM Region for ancillary services 
provided by generation resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources, in 
accordance with this Agreement.  Such scheduling and dispatch shall recognize transmission 
constraints on coordinated flowgates external to the Transmission System in accordance with 
Appendix A to the Joint Operating Agreement between the Midwest Independent Transmission 
System Operator, Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 38), the 
Joint Operating Agreement Among and Between New York Independent System Operator Inc. 
and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 45), and on other such 
flowgates that are coordinated in accordance with agreements between the LLC and other 
entities.  Scheduling and dispatch shall be conducted in accordance with this Agreement. 
 
  (b) The Office of the Interconnection shall undertake to identify any conflict or 
incompatibility between the scheduling or other deadlines or specifications applicable to the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market, and any relevant procedures of another Control Area, or any tariff 
(including the PJM Tariff).  Upon determining that any such conflict or incompatibility exists, 
the Office of the Interconnection shall propose tariff or procedural changes, and undertake such 
other efforts as may be appropriate, to resolve any such conflict or incompatibility. 
 
  (c) To protect its generation or distribution facilities, or local Transmission Facilities 
not under the monitoring responsibility and dispatch control of the Office of the Interconnection, 
an entity may request that the Office of the Interconnection schedule and dispatch generation or 
reductions in demand to meet a limit on Transmission Facilities different from that which the 
Office of the Interconnection has determined to be required for reliable operation of the 
Transmission System.  To the extent consistent with its other obligations under this Agreement, 
the Office of the Interconnection shall schedule and dispatch generation and reductions in 
demand in accordance with such request.  An entity that makes a request pursuant to this section 
1.7.6(c) shall be responsible for all generation and other costs resulting from its request that 
would not have been incurred by operating the Transmission System and scheduling and 
dispatching generation in the manner that the Office of the Interconnection otherwise has 
determined to be required for reliable operation of the Transmission System. 
 
1.7.7 Pricing. 
 
The price paid for energy bought and sold in the PJM Interchange Energy Market and for 
demand reductions will reflect the applicable interval Locational Marginal Price at each load and 
generation bus, determined by the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with this 
Agreement.  Transmission Congestion Charges and Transmission Loss Charges, which shall be 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 5 
determined by differences in Congestion Prices and Loss Prices in the applicable interval, shall 
be calculated by the Office of the Interconnection, and collected by PJMSettlement, and the 
revenues from there shall be disbursed by PJMSettlement in accordance with this Schedule. 
 
1.7.8 Generating Market Buyer Resources. 
 
A Generating Market Buyer may elect to self-schedule its generation resources up to that 
Generating Market Buyer’s Equivalent Load, in accordance with and subject to the procedures 
specified in this Schedule, and the accounting and billing requirements specified in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.  PJMSettlement shall not be a contracting party with respect 
to such self-scheduled or self-supplied transactions. 
 
1.7.9 Delivery to an External Market Buyer. 
 
A purchase of Spot Market Energy by an External Market Buyer shall be delivered to a bus or 
buses at the electrical boundaries of the PJM Region specified by the Office of the 
Interconnection, or to load in such area that is not served by Network Transmission Service, 
using Point-to-Point Transmission Service paid for by the External Market Buyer.  Further 
delivery of such energy shall be the responsibility of the External Market Buyer. 
 
1.7.10 Other Transactions. 
 
  (a) Bilateral Transactions. 
 
(i) In addition to transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market, Market 
Participants may enter into bilateral contracts for the purchase or sale of electric energy to 
or from each other or any other entity, subject to the obligations of Market Participants to 
make Generation Capacity Resources available for dispatch by the Office of the 
Interconnection.  Such bilateral contracts shall be for the physical transfer of energy to or 
from a Market Participant and shall be reported to and coordinated with the Office of the 
Interconnection in accordance with this Schedule and pursuant to the LLC’s rules relating 
to its InSchedule and ExSchedule tools.   
 
 (ii) For purposes of clarity, with respect to all bilateral contracts for the 
physical transfer of energy to a Market Participant inside the PJM Region, title to the 
energy that is the subject of the bilateral contract shall pass to the buyer at the source 
specified for the bilateral contract, and the further transmission of the energy or further 
sale of the energy into the PJM Interchange Energy Market shall be transacted by the 
buyer under the bilateral contract.  With respect to all bilateral contracts for the physical 
transfer of energy to an entity outside the PJM Region, title to the energy shall pass to the 
buyer at the border of the PJM Region and shall be delivered to the border using 
transmission service.  In no event shall the purchase and sale of energy between Market 
Participants under a bilateral contract constitute a transaction in the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market or be construed to define PJMSettlement as a contracting party to any 
bilateral transactions between Market Participants. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 6 
 (iii)  Market Participants that are parties to bilateral contracts for the purchase 
and sale and physical transfer of energy reported to and coordinated with the Office of 
the Interconnection under this Schedule shall use all reasonable efforts, consistent with 
Good Utility Practice, to limit the megawatt hours of such reported transactions to 
amounts reflecting the expected load and other physical delivery obligations of the buyer 
under the bilateral contract. 
 
 (iv)  All payments and related charges for the energy associated with a bilateral 
contract shall be arranged between the parties to the bilateral contract and shall not be 
billed or settled by the Office of the Interconnection or PJMSettlement. The LLC, 
PJMSettlement, and the Members will not assume financial responsibility for the failure 
of a party to perform obligations owed to the other party under a bilateral contract 
reported and coordinated with the Office of the Interconnection under this Schedule. 
 
(v)  A buyer under a bilateral contract shall guarantee and indemnify the LLC, 
PJMSettlement, and the Members for the costs of any Spot Market Backup used to meet 
the bilateral contract seller’s obligation to deliver energy under the bilateral contract and 
for which payment is not made to PJMSettlement by the seller under the bilateral 
contract, as determined by the Office of the Interconnection. Upon any default in 
obligations to the LLC or PJMSettlement by a Market Participant, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall (i) not accept any new InSchedule or ExSchedule reporting by the 
Market Participant and (ii) terminate all of the Market Participant’s InSchedules and 
ExSchedules associated with its bilateral contracts previously reported to the Office of 
the Interconnection for all days where delivery has not yet occurred.  All claims 
regarding a buyer’s default to a seller under a bilateral contract shall be resolved solely 
between the buyer and the seller.  In such circumstances, the seller may instruct the 
Office of the Interconnection to terminate all of the InSchedules and ExSchedules 
associated with bilateral contracts between buyer and seller previously reported to the 
Office of the Interconnection.  PJMSettlement shall assign its claims against a seller with 
respect to a seller’s nonpayment for Spot Market Backup to a buyer to the extent that the 
buyer has made an indemnification payment to PJMSettlement with respect to the seller’s 
nonpayment. 
 
(vi) Bilateral contracts that do not contemplate the physical transfer of energy 
to or from a Market Participant are not subject to this Schedule, shall not be reported to 
and coordinated with the Office of the Interconnection, and shall not in any way 
constitute a transaction in the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
  (b) Market Participants shall have Spot Market Backup with respect to all bilateral 
transactions that contemplate the physical transfer of energy to or from a Market Participant, that 
are not Dynamic Transfers pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.12 and that 
are curtailed or interrupted for any reason (except for curtailments or interruptions through Load 
Management for load located within the PJM Region). 
 
  (c) To the extent the Office of the Interconnection dispatches a Generating Market 
Buyer’s generation resources, such Generating Market Buyer may elect to net the output of such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 7 
resources against its hourly Equivalent Load.  Such a Generating Market Buyer shall be deemed 
a buyer from the PJM Interchange Energy Market to the extent of its PJM Interchange Imports, 
and shall be deemed a seller to the PJM Interchange Energy Market to the extent of its PJM 
Interchange Exports. 
 
  (d) A Market Seller may self-supply Station Power for its generation facility in 
accordance with the following provisions: 
 
(i) A Market Seller may self-supply Station Power for its generation facility 
during any month (1) when the net output of such facility is positive, or (2) when the net 
output of such facility is negative and the Market Seller during the same month has 
available at other of its generation facilities positive net output in an amount at least 
sufficient to offset fully such negative net output.  For purposes of this subsection (d), 
“net output” of a generation facility during any month means the facility’s gross energy 
output, less the Station Power requirements of such facility, during that month.  The 
determination of a generation facility’s or a Market Seller’s monthly net output under this 
subsection (d) will apply only to determine whether the Market Seller self-supplied 
Station Power during the month and will not affect the price of energy sold or consumed 
by the Market Seller at any bus during any Real-time Settlement Interval during the 
month.  For each Real-time Settlement Interval when a Market Seller has positive net 
output and delivers energy into the Transmission System, it will be paid the LMP at its 
bus for that Real-time Settlement Interval for all of the energy delivered.  Conversely, for 
each Real-time Settlement Interval when a Market Seller has negative net output and has 
received Station Power from the Transmission System, it will pay the LMP at its bus for 
that Real-time Settlement Interval for all of the energy consumed. 
 
(ii) Transmission Provider will determine the extent to which each affected 
Market Seller during the month self-supplied its Station Power requirements or obtained 
Station Power from third-party providers (including affiliates) and will incorporate that 
determination in its accounting and billing for the month.  In the event that a Market 
Seller self-supplies Station Power during any month in the manner described in 
subsection (1) of subsection (d)(i) above, Market Seller will not use, and will not incur 
any charges for, transmission service.  In the event, and to the extent, that a Market Seller 
self-supplies Station Power during any month in the manner described in subsection (2) 
of subsection (d)(i) above (hereafter referred to as “remote self-supply of Station 
Power”), Market Seller shall use and pay for transmission service for the transmission of 
energy in an amount equal to the facility’s negative net output from Market Seller’s 
generation facility(ies) having positive net output.  Unless the Market Seller makes other 
arrangements with Transmission Provider in advance, such transmission service shall be 
provided under Tariff, Part II and shall be charged the hourly rate under Tariff, Schedule 
8 for Non-Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service with an election to pay congestion 
charges, provided, however, that no reservation shall be necessary for such transmission 
service and the terms and charges under Tariff, Schedule 1; Tariff, Schedule 1A; Tariff, 
Schedule 2; Tariff, Schedule 3; Tariff Schedule 4; Tariff, Schedule 5; Tariff, Schedule 6; 
Tariff, Schedule 9; and Tariff, Schedule 10 shall not apply to such service.  The amount 
of energy that a Market Seller transmits in conjunction with remote self-supply of Station 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 8 
Power will not be affected by any other sales, purchases, or transmission of capacity or 
energy by or for such Market Seller under any other provisions of the PJM Tariff.  
 
(iii) A Market Seller may self-supply Station Power from its generation 
facilities located outside of the PJM Region during any month only if such generation 
facilities in fact run during such month and Market Seller separately has reserved 
transmission service and scheduled delivery of the energy from such resource in advance 
into the PJM Region. 
 
(iv)  The Office of the Interconnection is not responsible for determining 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority-jurisdictional retail rates, and the monthly 
netting provision in section 1.7.10(d)(i) above does not determine whether a retail sale of 
station power has occurred in a month.  Furthermore, notwithstanding any provision of 
subsection (d)(i) or (d)(ii) to the contrary, any net output determined for a Market Seller 
for Station Power purposes shall, as more fully set forth in the PJM manuals, take 
account of MWh values submitted to the Office of the Interconnection via its metering 
reporting systems by the Market Seller or the applicable Electric Distribution Company 
designated to make such submission, that reflect the Market Seller’s purchase of energy 
at retail to meet its Station Power needs. 
 
1.7.11 Emergencies. 
 
 (a) The Office of the Interconnection, with the assistance of the Members’ 
dispatchers as it may request, shall be responsible for monitoring the operation of the PJM 
Region, for declaring the existence of an Emergency, and for directing the operations of Market 
Participants as necessary to manage, alleviate or end an Emergency.  The standards, policies and 
procedures of the Office of the Interconnection for declaring the existence of an Emergency, 
including but not limited to a Minimum Generation Emergency, and for managing, alleviating or 
ending an Emergency, shall apply to all Members on a non-discriminatory basis.  Actions by the 
Office of the Interconnection and the Market Participants shall be carried out in accordance with 
this Agreement, the NERC Operating Policies, Applicable Regional Entity reliability principles 
and standards, Good Utility Practice, and the PJM Manuals.  A declaration that an Emergency 
exists or is likely to exist by the Office of the Interconnection shall be binding on all Market 
Participants until the Office of the Interconnection announces that the actual or threatened 
Emergency no longer exists.  Consistent with existing contracts, all Market Participants shall 
comply with all directions from the Office of the Interconnection for the purpose of managing, 
alleviating or ending an Emergency.  The Market Participants shall authorize the Office of the 
Interconnection and PJMSettlement to purchase or sell energy on their behalf to meet an 
Emergency, and otherwise to implement agreements with other Control Areas interconnected 
with the PJM Region for the mutual provision of service to meet an Emergency, in accordance 
with this Agreement.   
 
 (b) To the extent load must be shed to alleviate an Emergency in a Control Zone, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall, to the maximum extent practicable, direct the shedding of 
load within such Control Zone.  The Office of the Interconnection may shed load in one Control 
Zone to alleviate an Emergency in another Control Zone under its control only as necessary after 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 9 
having first shed load to the maximum extent practicable in the Control Zone experiencing the 
Emergency and only to the extent that PJM supports other control areas (not under its control) in 
those situations where load shedding would be necessary, such as to prevent isolation of facilities 
within the Eastern Interconnection, to prevent voltage collapse, or to restore system frequency 
following a system collapse; provided, however, that the Office of the Interconnection may not 
order a manual load dump in a Control Zone solely to address capacity deficiencies in another 
Control Zone.  This subsection shall be implemented consistent with the North American 
Electric Reliability Council and applicable reliability council standards. 
 
1.7.12 Fees and Charges. 
 
Each Market Participant, except for Special Members, shall pay all fees and charges of the 
Office of the Interconnection for operation of the PJM Interchange Energy Market as determined 
by and allocated to the Market Participant by the Office of the Interconnection, and for additional 
services they request from the LLC, PJMSettlement or the Office of the Interconnection that are 
not required for the operation of the LLC or the Office of the Interconnection, in accordance with 
Schedule 3. 
 
1.7.13 Relationship to the PJM Region. 
 
The PJM Interchange Energy Market operates within and subject to the requirements for the 
operation of the PJM Region. 
 
1.7.14 PJM Manuals. 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall be responsible for maintaining, updating, and 
promulgating the PJM Manuals as they relate to the operation of the PJM Interchange Energy 
Market.  The PJM Manuals, as they relate to the operation of the PJM Interchange Energy 
Market, shall conform and comply with this Agreement, NERC operating policies, and 
Applicable Regional Entity reliability principles, guidelines and standards, and shall be designed 
to facilitate administration of an efficient energy market within industry reliability standards and 
the physical capabilities of the PJM Region. 
 
1.7.15 Corrective Action. 
 
Consistent with Good Utility Practice, the Office of the Interconnection shall be authorized to 
direct or coordinate corrective action, whether or not specified in the PJM Manuals, as necessary 
to alleviate unusual conditions that threaten the integrity or reliability of the PJM Region, or the 
regional power system. 
 
1.7.16 Recording. 
 
Subject to the requirements of applicable State or federal law, all voice communications with the 
Office of the Interconnection Control Center may be recorded by the Office of the 
Interconnection and any Market Participant communicating with the Office of the 
Interconnection Control Center, and each Market Participant hereby consents to such recording. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 10 
 
1.7.17 [Reserved.] 
 
 1.7.18 Regulation. 
 
  (a) Regulation to meet the Regulation objective of each Regulation Zone shall be 
supplied from generation resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources 
located within the metered electrical boundaries of such Regulation Zone.  Generating Market 
Buyers, and Market Sellers offering Regulation, shall comply with applicable standards and 
requirements for Regulation capability and dispatch specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
  (b) The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain and maintain for each Regulation 
Zone an amount of Regulation equal to the Regulation objective for such Regulation Zone as 
specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
  (c) The Regulation range of a generation unit or Economic Load Response 
Participant resource shall be at least twice the amount of Regulation assigned as described in the 
PJM Manuals. 
 
  (d) A resource capable of automatic energy dispatch that is also providing Regulation 
shall have its energy dispatch range reduced by at least twice the amount of the Regulation 
provided with consideration of the Regulation limits of that resource, as specified in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
  (e) Qualified Regulation must satisfy the measurement and verification tests 
described in the PJM Manuals. 
 
1.7.19 Ramping. 
 
A generator dispatched by the Office of the Interconnection pursuant to a control signal 
appropriate to increase or decrease the generator’s megawatt output level shall be able to change 
output at the ramping rate specified in the Offer Data submitted to the Office of the 
Interconnection for that generator.  Market Sellers must specify a ramping rate in the Offer Data 
that is an accurate representation of the resource’s capabilities given the confines of the PJM 
software. 
 
1.7.19A Synchronized Reserve. 
 
  (a) Synchronized Reserve can be supplied from generation resources and/or 
Economic Load Response Participant resources located within the metered boundaries of the 
PJM Region.  A resource is not eligible to provide Synchronized Reserve if its entire output has 
been designated as emergency energy or if the resource is a nuclear, wind, or solar unit, or a 
Hybrid Resource comprised exclusively of wind and solar components, unless the Market Seller 
of such a resource has obtained written approval from the Office of the Interconnection to 
provide Synchronized Reserves.  To obtain such approval, the Market Seller must submit to the 
Office of the Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit a written request for exemption 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 11 
and provide documentation to support the resource’s ability to follow dispatch at the direction of 
the Office of the Interconnection, such as historical operating data showing voluntary response to 
reserve events and/or technical information about the physical operation of the resource.  The 
Office of the Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit shall review, in an open and 
transparent manner as between the Market Seller, the Market Monitoring Unit, and the Office of 
the Interconnection, the information and documentation in support of the request for approval to 
provide reserves.  No later than 30 Business Days from the date of data submittal supporting the 
request, the Office of the Interconnection shall determine, with the advice and input of the 
Marketing Monitoring Unit, whether the resource will be permitted to provide reserves and 
provide written notification to the Market Seller of such determination.  If the request is denied, 
the Office of the Interconnection shall include in the notice a written explanation for the denial.  
Generating Market Buyers, and Market Sellers offering Synchronized Reserve shall comply with 
applicable standards and requirements for Synchronized Reserve capability and dispatch 
specified in the PJM Manuals, the Operating Agreement and the PJM Tariff. 
 
  (b) The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain and maintain for each Reserve 
Zone and Reserve Sub-zone an amount of Primary and Synchronized Reserve equal to the 
respective Primary Reserve Requirement and Synchronized Reserve Requirement objectives for 
such Reserve Zone and Reserve Sub-zone, as specified in the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the 
Interconnection shall create additional Reserve Zones or Reserve Sub-zones to maintain the 
required amount of reserves in a specific geographic area of the PJM Region as needed for 
system reliability.  Such needs may arise due to planned and unplanned system events that limit 
the Office of the Interconnection’s ability to deliver reserves to specific geographic area of the 
PJM Region where reserves are required.   
 
  (c) The Synchronized Reserve capability of a generation resource and Economic 
Load Response Participant resource shall be the increase in energy output or load reduction 
achievable by the generation resource and Economic Load Response Participant resource within 
a continuous 10-minute period. 
 
1.7.19A.01 Non-Synchronized Reserve. 
 
 (a) Non-Synchronized Reserve shall be supplied from generation resources located 
within the metered boundaries of the PJM Region.  A resource is not eligible to provide Non-
Synchronized Reserve if (i) its entire output has been designated as emergency energy, (ii) it is 
not available to provide energy, or (iii) it is a nuclear, wind, or solar unit, an ESR Model 
Participant, or a Hybrid Resource, unless the Market Seller of such a resource has obtained 
written approval from the Office of the Interconnection to provide Non-Synchronized Reserves.  
To obtain such approval, the Market Seller must submit to the Office of the Interconnection and 
the Market Monitoring Unit a written request for exemption and provide documentation to 
support the resource’s ability to follow dispatch at the direction of the Office of the 
Interconnection, such as historical operating data showing voluntary response to reserve events 
and/or technical information about the physical operation of the resource.  The Office of the 
Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit shall review, in an open and transparent manner 
as between the Market Seller, the Market Monitoring Unit, and the Office of the Interconnection, 
the information and documentation in support of the request for approval to provide reserves.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 12 
No later than 30 Business Days from the date of data submittal supporting the request, the Office 
of the Interconnection shall determine, with the advice and input of the Marketing Monitoring 
Unit, whether the resource will be permitted to provide reserves and provide written notification 
to the Market Seller of such determination.  If the request is denied, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall include in the notice a written explanation for the denial.  All other non-
emergency generation capacity resources available to provide energy shall also be available to 
provide Non-Synchronized Reserve, as applicable to the capacity resource’s capability to provide 
these services.  Generating Market Buyers and Market Sellers offering Non-Synchronized 
Reserve shall comply with applicable standards and requirements for Non-Synchronized Reserve 
capability and dispatch specified in the PJM Manuals, the Operating Agreement and the PJM 
Tariff. 
 
 (b) The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain and maintain for each Reserve 
Zone and Reserve Sub-zone an amount of Non-Synchronized Reserve such that the sum of the 
Synchronized Reserve and Non-Synchronized Reserve meets the Primary Reserve Requirement 
for such Reserve Zone and Reserve Sub-zone, as specified in the PJM Manuals.  The Office of 
the Interconnection shall create additional Reserve Zones or Reserve Sub-zones to maintain the 
required amount of reserves in a specific geographic area of the PJM Region as needed for 
system reliability.  Such needs may arise due to planned and unplanned system events that limit 
the Office of the Interconnection’s ability to deliver reserves to specific geographic area of the 
PJM Region where reserves are required.   
 
 (c) The Non-Synchronized Reserve capability of a generation resource shall be the 
increase in energy output achievable by the generation resource within a continuous 10-minute 
period provided that the resource is not synchronized to the system at the initiation of the 
response. 
 
1.7.19A.02 Secondary Reserve.  
 
(a)  Secondary Reserve can be supplied from synchronized and non-synchronized generation 
resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources located within the metered 
boundaries of the PJM Region, as specified in the PJM Manuals. A resource is not eligible to 
provide Secondary Reserve if (i) its entire output has been designated as emergency energy, (ii) 
it is not available to provide energy, or (iii) it is a nuclear, wind, or solar unit, or a Hybrid 
Resource comprised exclusively of wind and solar components, unless the Market Seller of such 
a resource has obtained written approval from the Office of the Interconnection to provide 
Secondary Reserves.  To obtain such approval, the Market Seller must submit to the Office of the 
Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit a written request for exemption and provide 
documentation to support the resource’s ability to follow dispatch at the direction of the Office 
of the Interconnection, such as historical operating data showing voluntary response to reserve 
events and/or technical information about the physical operation of the resource.  The Office of 
the Interconnection and the Market Monitoring Unit shall review, in an open and transparent 
manner as between the Market Seller, the Market Monitoring Unit, and the Office of the 
Interconnection, the information and documentation in support of the request for approval to 
provide reserves.  No later than 30 Business Days from the date of data submittal supporting the 
request, the Office of the Interconnection shall determine, with the advice and input of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 13 
Marketing Monitoring Unit, whether the resource will be permitted to provide reserves and 
provide written notification to the Market Seller of such determination.  If the request is denied, 
the Office of the Interconnection shall include in the notice a written explanation for the denial.  
Generating Market Buyers and Market Sellers offering Secondary Reserve shall comply with 
applicable standards and requirements for Secondary Reserve capability and dispatch specified 
in the PJM Manuals, the Operating Agreement and the PJM Tariff.  
 
(b)  The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain and maintain for each Reserve Zone and 
Reserve Sub-zone, as applicable, an amount of Secondary Reserve such that the sum of the 
Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve and Secondary Reserve meets the respective 
30-minute Reserve Requirement for each such Reserve Zone and Reserve Sub-zone, as 
applicable, and as specified in the PJM Manuals. In accordance with the PJM Manuals, the 
Office of the Interconnection shall create additional Reserve Zones or Reserve Sub-zones to 
maintain the 30-minute Reserve Requirement in a specific geographic area of the PJM Region as 
needed for system reliability. Such needs may arise due to planned and unplanned system events 
that limit the Office of the Interconnection’s ability to deliver reserves to specific geographic 
area of the PJM Region where reserves are required.  
 
(c)  The Secondary Reserve capability of a generation resource and Economic Load Response 
Participant resource shall be the increase in energy output or load reduction achievable by the 
generation resource and Economic Load Response Participant resource within a continuous 30-
minute period, minus the increase in energy output or load reduction achievable within a 
continuous 10-minute period. 
 
1.7.19B Bilateral Transactions Regarding Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non-
Synchronized Reserve, and Secondary Reserve. 
 
  (a) In addition to transactions in the Regulation market, Synchronized Reserve 
market, Non- Synchronized Reserve market and Secondary Reserve market, Market Participants 
may enter into bilateral contracts for the purchase or sale of Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, 
Non- Synchronized Reserve or Secondary Reserve to or from each other or any other entity.  
Such bilateral contracts shall be for the physical transfer of Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, 
Non- Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve to or from a Market Participant and shall be 
reported to and coordinated with the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with this 
Schedule and pursuant to the LLC’s rules relating to its Markets Gateway tools. 
 
  (b) For purposes of clarity, with respect to all bilateral contracts for the physical 
transfer of Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non- Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary 
Reserve to a Market Participant in the PJM Region, title to the product that is the subject of the 
bilateral contract shall pass to the buyer at the source specified for the bilateral contract, and any 
further transactions associated with such products or further sale of such Regulation, 
Synchronized Reserve, Non- Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve in the markets for 
Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non- Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve, 
respectively, shall be transacted by the buyer under the bilateral contract.  In no event shall the 
purchase and sale of Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non- Synchronized Reserve, or 
Secondary Reserve between Market Participants under a bilateral contract constitute a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 14 
transaction in PJM’s markets for Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non- Synchronized 
Reserve, or Secondary Reserve, or otherwise be construed to define PJMSettlement as a 
contracting party to any bilateral transactions between Market Participants. 
 
  (c) Market Participants that are parties to bilateral contracts for the purchase and sale 
and physical transfer of Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non- Synchronized Reserve, or 
Secondary Reserve reported to and coordinated with the Office of the Interconnection under this 
Schedule shall use all reasonable efforts, consistent with Good Utility Practice, to limit the 
amounts of such reported transactions to amounts reflecting the expected requirements for 
Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non- Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve of the 
buyer pursuant to such bilateral contracts.   
 
  (d) All payments and related charges for the Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non- 
Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve associated with a bilateral contract shall be 
arranged between the parties to the bilateral contract and shall not be billed or settled by the 
Office of the Interconnection.  The LLC, PJMSettlement, and the Members will not assume 
financial responsibility for the failure of a party to perform obligations owed to the other party 
under a bilateral contract reported and coordinated with the Office of the Interconnection under 
this Schedule. 
 
  (e) A buyer under a bilateral contract shall guarantee and indemnify the LLC, 
PJMSettlement, and the Members for the costs of any purchases by the seller under the bilateral 
contract in the markets for Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non- Synchronized Reserve, or 
Secondary Reserve used to meet the bilateral contract seller’s obligation to deliver Regulation, 
Synchronized Reserve, Non- Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve under the bilateral 
contract and for which payment is not made to PJMSettlement by the seller under the bilateral 
contract, as determined by the Office of the Interconnection.  Upon any default in obligations to 
the LLC or PJMSettlement by a Market Participant, the Office of the Interconnection shall (i) not 
accept any new Markets Gateway reporting by the Market Participant and (ii) terminate all of the 
Market Participant’s reporting of Markets Gateway schedules associated with its bilateral 
contracts previously reported to the Office of the Interconnection for all days where delivery has 
not yet occurred.  All claims regarding a buyer’s default to a seller under a bilateral contract shall 
be resolved solely between the buyer and the seller.  In such circumstances, the seller may 
instruct the Office of the Interconnection to terminate all of the reported Markets Gateway 
schedules associated with bilateral contracts between buyer and seller previously reported to the 
Office of the Interconnection. 
 
  (f) Market Participants shall purchase Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non- 
Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve from PJM’s markets for Regulation, Synchronized 
Reserve, Non- Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve, in quantities sufficient to complete 
the delivery or receipt obligations of a bilateral contract that has been curtailed or interrupted for 
any reason, with respect to all bilateral transactions that contemplate the physical transfer of 
Regulation, Synchronized Reserve, Non- Synchronized Reserve, or Secondary Reserve to or 
from a Market Participant.  
 
1.7.20 Communication and Operating Requirements. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 15 
 
  (a) Market Participants.  Each Market Participant shall have, or shall arrange to have, 
its transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market subject to control by a Market Operations 
Center, with staffing and communications systems capable of real-time communication with the 
Office of the Interconnection during normal and Emergency conditions and of control of the 
Market Participant’s relevant load or facilities sufficient to meet the requirements of the Market 
Participant’s transactions with the PJM Interchange Energy Market, including but not limited to 
the following requirements as applicable, and as may be further described in the PJM Manuals. 
 
  (b) Market Sellers selling from generation resources and/or Economic Load Response 
Participant resources within the PJM Region shall:  report to the Office of the Interconnection 
sources of energy and Economic Load Response Participant resources available for operation; 
supply to the Office of the Interconnection all applicable Offer Data; report to the Office of the 
Interconnection generation resources and Economic Load Response Participant resources that are 
self-scheduled; with respect to generation resources, report to the Office of the Interconnection 
bilateral sales transactions to buyers not within the PJM Region; confirm to the Office of the 
Interconnection bilateral sales to Market Buyers within the PJM Region; respond to the Office of 
the Interconnection’s directives to start, shutdown or change output levels of generation units, or 
change scheduled voltages or reactive output levels of generation units, or reduce load from 
Economic Load Response Participant resources; continuously maintain all Offer Data concurrent 
with on-line operating information; and ensure that, where so equipped, generating equipment 
and Economic Load Response Participant resources are operated with control equipment 
functioning as specified in the PJM Manuals.  
 
  (c) Market Sellers selling from generation resources outside the PJM Region shall:  
provide to the Office of the Interconnection all applicable Offer Data, including offers specifying 
amounts of energy available, hours of availability and prices of energy and other services; 
respond to Office of the Interconnection directives to schedule delivery or change delivery 
schedules; and communicate delivery schedules to the Market Seller’s Control Area. 
 
  (d) Market Participants that are Load Serving Entities or purchasing on behalf of 
Load Serving Entities shall: respond to Office of the Interconnection directives for load 
management steps; report to the Office of the Interconnection Generation Capacity Resources to 
satisfy capacity obligations that are available for pool operation; report to the Office of the 
Interconnection all bilateral purchase transactions; respond to other Office of the Interconnection 
directives such as those required during Emergency operation. 
 
  (e) Market Participants that are not Load Serving Entities or purchasing on behalf of 
Load Serving Entities shall:  provide to the Office of the Interconnection requests to purchase 
specified amounts of energy for each hour of the Operating Day during which it intends to 
purchase from the PJM Interchange Energy Market, along with Dispatch Rate levels above 
which it does not desire to purchase; respond to other Office of the Interconnection directives 
such as those required during Emergency operation. 
 
  (f) Economic Load Response Participants are responsible for maintaining demand 
reduction information, including the amount and price at which demand may be reduced.  The 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.7 General 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER26-1099-000 - Page 16 
Economic Load Response Participant shall provide this information to the Office of the 
Interconnection by posting it on the Load Response Program Registration link of the PJM 
website as required by the PJM Manuals.  The Economic Load Response Participant shall notify 
the Office of the Interconnection of a demand reduction concurrent with, or prior to, the 
beginning of such demand reduction in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  In the event that an 
Economic Load Response Participant chooses to measure load reductions using a Customer 
Baseline Load, the Economic Load Response Participant shall inform the Office of the 
Interconnection of a change in its operations or the operations of the end-use customer that 
would affect a relevant Customer Baseline Load as required by the PJM Manuals. 
 
  (g) PRD Providers shall be responsible for automation and supervisory control 
equipment that satisfy the criteria set forth in the RAA to ensure automated reductions to their 
Price Responsive Demand in response to price in accordance with their PRD Curves submitted to 
the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
(h) Market Participants engaging in Coordinated External Transactions shall provide 
to the Office of the Interconnection the information required to be specified in a CTS Interface 
Bid, in accordance with the procedures of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.13 and the 
parallel provisions of Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.13. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.8 Selection, Scheduling and 
Effective Date: 6/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 1 
1.8 Selection, Scheduling and Dispatch Procedure Adjustment Process. 
 
1.8.1 PJM Dispute Resolution Agreement. 
 
Subject to the condition specified below, any Member adversely affected by a decision of the 
Office of the Interconnection with respect to the operation of the PJM Interchange Energy 
Market, including the qualification of an entity to participate in that market as a buyer or seller, 
may seek such relief as may be appropriate under the PJM Dispute Resolution Procedures on the 
grounds that such decision does not have an adequate basis in fact or does not conform to the 
requirements of this Agreement. 
 
1.8.2 Market or Control Area Hourly Operational Disputes. 
 
  (a) Market Participants shall comply with all determinations of the Office of the 
Interconnection on the selection, scheduling or dispatch of resources in the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market, or to meet the operational requirements of the PJM Region.  Complaints arising 
from or relating to such determinations shall be brought to the attention of the Office of the 
Interconnection not later than the end of the fifth Business Day after the end of the Operating 
Day to which the selection or scheduling relates, or in which the scheduling or dispatch took 
place, and shall include, if practicable, a proposed resolution of the complaint.  Upon receiving 
notification of the dispute, the Office of the Interconnection and the Market Participant raising 
the dispute shall exert their best efforts to obtain and retain all data and other information relating 
to the matter in dispute, and to notify other Market Participants that are likely to be affected by 
the proposed resolution.  Subject to confidentiality or other non-disclosure requirements, 
representatives of the Office of the Interconnection, the Market Participant raising the dispute, 
and other interested Market Participants, shall meet within three Business Days of the foregoing 
notification, or at such other or further times as the Office of the Interconnection and the Market 
Participants may agree, to review the relevant facts, and to seek agreement on a resolution of the 
dispute. 
 
  (b) If the Office of the Interconnection determines that the matter in dispute discloses 
a defect in operating policies, practices or procedures subject to the discretion of the Office of 
the Interconnection, the Office of the Interconnection shall implement such changes as it deems 
appropriate and shall so notify the Members Committee.  Alternatively, the Office of the 
Interconnection may notify the Members Committee of a proposed change and solicit the 
comments or other input of the Members. 
 
  (c) If either the Office of the Interconnection, the Market Participant raising the 
dispute, or another affected Market Participant believes that the matter in dispute has not been 
adequately resolved, or discloses a need for changes in standards or policies established in or 
pursuant to the Operating Agreement, any of the foregoing parties may make a written request 
for review of the matter by the Members Committee, and shall include with the request the 
forwarding party’s recommendation and such data or information (subject to confidentiality or 
other non-disclosure requirements) as would enable the Members Committee to assess the matter 
and the recommendation.  The Members Committee shall take such action on the 
recommendation as it shall deem appropriate. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.8 Selection, Scheduling and 
Effective Date: 6/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 2 
 
  (d) Subject to the right of a Market Participant to obtain correction of accounting or 
billing errors, the LLC or a Market Participant shall not be entitled to actual, compensatory, 
consequential or punitive damages, opportunity costs, or other form of reimbursement from the 
LLC or any other Market Participant for any loss, liability or claim, including any claim for lost 
profits, incurred as a result of a mistake, error or other fault by the Office of the Interconnection 
in the selection, scheduling or dispatch of resources. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.9 Prescheduling 
Effective Date: 11/1/2017 - Docket #: ER16-372-002 - Page 1 
1.9 Prescheduling.   
 
The following procedures and principles shall govern the prescheduling activities necessary to 
plan for the reliable operation of the PJM Region and for the efficient operation of the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market. 
 
1.9.1 Outage Scheduling.   
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall be responsible for coordinating and approving requests 
for outages of generation and transmission facilities as necessary for the reliable operation of the 
PJM Region, in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the Interconnection shall 
maintain records of outages and outage requests of these facilities. 
 
1.9.2 Planned Outages. 
 
 (a) A Generator Planned Outage shall be included in Generator Planned Outage 
schedules established prior to the scheduled start date for the outage, in accordance with 
standards and procedures specified in the PJM Manuals.   
 
 (b) The Office of the Interconnection shall conduct Generator Planned Outage 
scheduling for Generation Capacity Resources in accordance with the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement and the PJM Manuals and in consultation with the Market Sellers owning or 
controlling the output of such resources.  A Market Seller shall not be expected to submit offers 
for the sale of energy or other services, or to satisfy delivery obligations, from all or part of a 
generation resource undergoing an approved Generator Planned Outage.  If the Office of the 
Interconnection determines that approval of a Generator Planned Outage would significantly 
affect the reliable operation of the PJM Region, the Office of the Interconnection may withhold 
approval or withdraw a prior approval.  Approval of a Generator Planned Outage of a Generation 
Capacity Resource shall be withheld or withdrawn only as necessary to ensure the adequacy of 
reserves or the reliability of the PJM Region in connection with anticipated implementation or 
avoidance of Emergency procedures.  The Market Seller shall provide the Office of the 
Interconnection with an estimate of the amount of time it needs to return to service any 
Generation Capacity Resource on Generator Planned Outage that is already underway.  If the 
Office of the Interconnection withholds or withdraws its approval of a Generator Planned 
Outage, it shall coordinate with the Market Seller owning or controlling the resource to 
reschedule the Generator Planned Outage at the earliest practical time.  The Office of the 
Interconnection shall if possible propose alternative schedules with the intent of minimizing the 
economic impact on the Market Seller of a Generator Planned Outage.  
 
 (c) The Office of the Interconnection shall conduct Transmission Planned Outage 
scheduling in accordance with procedures specified in the Consolidated Transmission Owners 
Agreement and the PJM Manuals, and in accordance with the following procedures: 
 
 (i) Transmission Owners shall use reasonable efforts to submit Transmission 
Planned Outage schedules one year in advance but by no later than the first of the month 
six months in advance of the requested start date for all outages that are expected to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT ATTACHMENT K – APPENDIX --> OATT ATTACHMENT K APPENDIX SECTION 1 - MARKET 
OPERATIONS --> OATT Attachment K Appendix Sec 1.9 Prescheduling 
Effective Date: 11/1/2017 - Docket #: ER16-372-002 - Page 2 
exceed five working days duration, with regular (at least monthly) updates as new 
information becomes available. 
 
 (ii) If notice of a Transmission Planned Outage is not provided in accordance 
with the requirements in subsection (i) above, and if such outage is determined by the Office of 
the Interconnection to have the potential to cause significant system impacts, including but not 
limited to reliability impacts and transmission system congestion, then the Office of the 
Interconnection may require the Transmission Owner to implement an alternative outage 
schedule to reduce or avoid such impacts. The Office of the Interconnection may, however, if 
requested by the Transmission Owner, dispatch generation or reductions in demand in order to 
avoid implementing an alternative outage schedule for its Transmission Facilities to extent 
consistent with its obligations under the Operating Agreement or PJM Tariff and provided the 
Office of the Interconnection determines that such dispatch would not adversely affect reliability 
in the PJM Region or otherwise not be in accordance with Good Utility Practices.  A 
Transmission Owner that makes such a dispatch request pursuant to this section shall be 
responsible for all generation and other costs resulting from its request that would not have been 
incurred had the Office of the Interconnection implemented an alternative outage schedule to 
reduce or avoid reliability and congestion impacts.  The Office of the Interconnection may, at the 
Transmission Owner’s consent, directly assign to the Transmission Owner all generation and 
other costs resulting from the Office of the Interconnection’s dispatch of generation or reductions 
in demand arising from outages associated with RTEP upgrades not submitted consistent with 
the timelines set forth in the Tariff and the PJM Operating Agreement and where such outage is 
required to meet the reliability-based in-service date of the RTEP upgrade project.   
 
 
  (iii) Transmission Owners shall submit notice of all Transmission Planned 
Outages to the Office of the Interconnection by the first day of the month preceding the 