Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION 
 
References to section numbers in this Part V refer to sections of this Part V, unless otherwise 
specified. 
 
Preamble: 
 
Deactivation of generating units in the PJM Region shall be governed by this Part V of this 
Tariff.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 113 Notices 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
113 Notices 
 
113.1 Generation Owner Notice: 
 
When a Generation Owner desires to deactivate a generating unit located in the PJM Region, 
such Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, must provide notice of such proposed 
Deactivation in writing to the Transmission Provider at least twelve (12) months prior to the 
desired Deactivation Date.  This notice shall include an indication of whether the generating unit 
is being retired or mothballed, the desired Deactivation Date, and, if mothballing, a good faith 
estimate of the time period the generating unit would be out of service.  The desired Deactivation 
Date may be no earlier than the following: (a) April 1 of the following calendar year, if the 
Transmission Provider receives the notice between January 1 and March 31; (b) July 1 of the 
following calendar year, if the Transmission Provider receives the notice between April 1 and 
June 30; (c) October 1 of the following calendar year, if the Transmission Provider receives the 
notice between July 1 and September 30; or (d) January 1 of the second calendar year, if the 
Transmission Provider receives the notice between October 1 and December 31.  The 
Transmission Provider shall promptly provide a copy of such notice to the Market Monitoring 
Unit.  The desired Deactivation Date may be earlier than the above-referenced dates if the 
Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, (i) receives notice from a state or federal regulatory 
entity that requires or compels the Generation Owner, as a matter of law, to deactivate its 
generating unit by a date earlier than the dates permitted by this Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 (ii) 
receives such notice on a date that renders compliance with this provision infeasible; and (iii) the 
generating unit experiences a catastrophic failure as reasonably determined by the Transmission 
Provider which renders compliance with this provision infeasible. 
 
113.2 Notice of Reliability Impact: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall inform the Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, whether 
the Deactivation of the generating unit would adversely affect the reliability of the Transmission 
System (“Notice of Reliability Impact”) by the following date: (a) May 31 of the current 
calendar year, if the Transmission Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part 
V, section 113.1 between January 1 and March 31; (b) August 31 of the current calendar year, if 
the Transmission Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 
between April 1 and June 30; (c) November 30 of the current calendar year, if the Transmission 
Provider received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 between July 1 and 
September 30; or (d) February 28 of the following calendar year, if the Transmission Provider 
received the notice required pursuant to Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 between October 1 and 
December 31.  In the event there are no reliability issues associated with the proposed 
Deactivation of the generating unit, the Notice of Reliability Impact shall so notify the 
Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, and the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent 
may deactivate its generating unit at any time thereafter.  The Generation Owner shall coordinate 
with the appropriate Transmission Owner and the Transmission Provider regarding the removal 
of any transmission equipment located at the generating unit proposed for Deactivation.  In the 
event the Transmission Provider determines that, in accordance with established reliability 
criteria, the Deactivation of the Generation Owner’s generating unit would adversely affect the 
reliability of the Transmission System absent upgrades to the Transmission System, the Notice of 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 113 Notices 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 2 
Reliablity Impact shall notify the Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, of the reliability 
concerns.  Such Notice of Reliablity Impact shall (1) identify the specific reliability impact 
resulting from the proposed Deactivation of the generating unit; and (2) provide an initial 
estimate of the period of time it will take to complete the Transmission System reliability 
upgrades necessary to alleviate the reliability impact.  Regardless of whether the Deactivation of 
the generating unit would adversely affect the reliability of the Transmission System, the 
Generation Owner or its Designated Agent may deactivate its generating unit, subject to the 
notice requirements in Tariff, Part V, section 113.1.  Within 30 days of the Generation Owner’s 
or its Designated Agent’s receipt of the Notice of Reliability Impact identifying reliability 
concerns pursuant to this Tariff, Part V, section 113.2, the Generation Owner or its Designated 
Agent shall inform Transmission Provider whether the generating unit proposed for Deactivation 
will continue operating beyond its desired Deactivation Date during the period of construction of 
the Transmission System reliability upgrades necessary to alleviate the reliability impact 
resulting from the Deactivation of the generating unit, and if the generating unit will continue 
operating, provide the Transmission Provider with an estimate of the amount of any project 
investment and the time period the generating unit would be out of service for repairs, if any, that 
would be required to keep the unit in, or return the unit to, operation.  For generating units that 
will continue operating beyond their desired Deactivation Dates, the Transmission Provider shall 
(a) within 45 days of the Transmission Provider issuing the Notice of Reliability Impact pursuant 
to this Tariff, Part V, section 113.2, provide an updated estimate of the period of time it will take 
to complete the Transmission System upgrades necessary to alleviate the reliability impact; and 
(b) within 60 days of the Transmission Provider issuing the Notice of Reliability Impact pursuant 
to this Tariff, Part V, section 113.2, post on its internet site full details of the transmission 
upgrades necessary to alleviate the reliability impact that would result from the  Deactivation of 
the generating unit.  Upon receipt of notification from the Transmission Provider that 
Deactivation of the generating unit would cause reliability concerns, the Generation Owner shall 
immediately be entitled to file with the Commission a cost of service rate to recover the entire 
cost of operating the generating unit until such time as the generating unit is deactivated pursuant 
to this Part V (“Cost of Service Recovery Rate”).  In the alternative, the Generation Owner may 
elect to receive the Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit provided under this Part V. 
 
113.3 Subsequent Deactivation Notice for Generating Units Continuing to Operate: 
 
In the event that a Generation Owner or its Designated Agent, which has informed Transmission 
Provider pursuant to section 113.2 that a generating unit will continue operating, desires to 
deactivate such generating unit prior to the completion date of the Transmission System 
reliability upgrades necessary to alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the Deactivation of 
the generating unit, or the date that the Transmission Provider otherwise determines, in 
accordance with established reliability criteria, that the continued operation of the generating unit 
is no longer necessary for the reliability of the Transmission System, the Generation Owner or its 
Designated Agent shall provide notice of such proposed Deactivation in writing to the 
Transmission Provider no later than 90 days prior to the desired Deactivation Date for the 
generating unit.   
 
113.4 Notice for Generation Units Providing Reactive Supply and Voltage Control: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 113 Notices 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 3 
In addition to the notice requirements in this Tariff, Part V, when a Generation Owner desires to 
deactivate a generating unit that provides reactive supply and voltage control service under 
Tariff, Schedule 2, such Generation Owner, or its Designated Agent, must satisfy the notice and 
filing requirements in Tariff, Schedule 2.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 114 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
114 Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit: 
 
In the event that the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent informs Transmission Provider 
pursuant to section 113.2 that it will continue operating a generating unit beyond its desired 
Deactivation Date, the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent shall receive a monthly 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit for such continued operation pursuant to the terms and 
conditions of this section 114.   
 
Subject to section 119 of this Tariff, a Generation Owner or its Designated Agent shall be 
eligible for Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credits commencing on the later of the 
proposed Deactivation Date of its generating unit or the day after the Generation Owner 
or its Designated Agent submits the informational filing pursuant to section 116 of this 
Tariff and continuing until the earlier of such time as the generating unit is deactivated or 
the completion date of the necessary 
 
Transmission System reliability upgrades that would alleviate the reliability impact 
resulting from the Deactivation of the generating unit, or the Transmission Provider 
otherwise determines, in accordance with established reliability criteria, that the 
continued operation of the generating unit is no longer necessary for the reliability of the 
Transmission System.  The Transmission Provider shall give at least thirty days notice to 
a Generation Owner or its Designated Agent of the date when continued operation of a 
generating unit is no longer required under Part V of the Tariff. 
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credits shall be determined according to the following 
formula: 
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit = ((Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate * 
Applicable Multiplier) * MW capability of the unit * Number of days in the 
month) + (APIR * First Year Multiplier) – Actual Net Revenues 
 
Where: 
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate is the Generation Owner’s Deactivation Avoidable 
Cost Rate determined pursuant to section 115 of this Tariff.  
 
Applicable Adder is the appropriate multiplier specified below: 
 
First Year Multiplier:  110 percent.  This multiplier shall apply commencing on the 
desired Deactivation Date of the generating unit proposed for Deactivation and for the 12 
months thereafter. 
 
Second Year Multiplier:  120 percent.  This multiplier shall apply commencing on the 
first day of the 13 th month after the desired Deactivation Date of the generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation and for the 12 months thereafter. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 114 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 2 
Third Year Multiplier:  135 percent.  This multiplier shall apply commencing on the 
first day of the 25 th month after the desired Deactivation Date of the generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation and for the 12 months thereafter. 
 
Fourth Year Multiplier:  150 percent.  This multiplier shall apply commencing on the 
first day of the 37 th month after the desired Deactivation Date of the generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation and until the earlier of such time as the generating unit is 
deactivated or the completion date of the necessary Transmission System reliability 
upgrades that would alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the Deactivation of the 
generating unit, or the Transmission Provider otherwise determines, in accordance with 
established reliability criteria, that the continued operation of the generating unit is no 
longer necessary for the reliability of the Transmission System.  
 
(Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate * Applicable Multiplier) is expressed in $/MW day. 
 
Actual Net Revenues are all revenues from PJM markets and unit-specific bilateral contracts net 
of marginal cost of service recoverable under cost-based offers to sell energy from operating 
capacity on the PJM Interchange Energy Market under the Operating Agreement, not less than 
zero.  
  
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit shall not be less than zero.   
 
The Market Monitoring Unit and the generating unit owner shall attempt to come to agreement 
on the appropriate level of each component included in the Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit.  
If a generating unit owner includes a cost component inconsistent with its agreement or 
inconsistent with the Market Monitoring Unit’s determination regarding such cost components, 
the Market Monitoring Unit may petition the Commission for an order that would require the 
generating unit owner to include an appropriate cost component.  This provision is duplicated in 
section IV.2 of Attachment M – Appendix. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 115 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
115 Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
 
The Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate for a generating unit proposed for Deactivation shall be 
determined using the following formula:   
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate = ((AOML + AAE + AME + AVE + 
ATFI + ACC + ACLE) / 12) 
 
Where: 
 
 AOML (Avoidable Operations and Maintenance Labor) consists of the 
avoidable labor expenses related directly to operations and maintenance of the 
generating unit proposed for Deactivation for the twelve months preceding the 
Generation Owner’s notice pursuant to section 113.1 of this Tariff.  The 
categories of expenses included in AOML are those incurred for:  (a) on-site 
based labor engaged in operations and maintenance activities; (b) off-site based 
labor engaged in on-site operations and maintenance activities directly related to 
the generating unit; and (c) off-site based labor engaged in off-site operations and 
maintenance activities directly related to generating unit equipment removed from 
the generating unit site.  
 
 AAE (Avoidable Administrative Expenses) consists of the avoidable 
administrative expenses related directly to employees at the generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation for twelve months preceding the Generation Owner’s 
notice pursuant to section 113.1 of this Tariff.  The categories of expenses 
included in AAE are those incurred for:  (a) employee expenses (except employee 
expenses included in AOML); (b) environmental fees; (c) safety and operator 
training; (d) office supplies; (e) communications; and (f) annual plant test, 
inspection and analysis. 
 
 AME (Avoidable Maintenance Expenses) consists of avoidable 
maintenance expenses (other than expenses included in AOML) related directly to 
the generating unit proposed for Deactivation for the twelve months preceding the 
Generation Owner’s notice pursuant to section 113.1 of this Tariff.  The 
categories of expenses included in AME are those incurred for:  (a) chemical and 
materials consumed during maintenance of the generating unit; and (b) rented 
maintenance equipment used to maintain the generating unit. 
 
 AVE (Avoidable Variable Expenses) consists of avoidable variable 
expenses related directly to the generating unit proposed for Deactivation incurred 
in the twelve months preceding the Generation Owner’s notice pursuant to section 
113.1 of this Tariff.  The categories of expenses included in AVE are those 
incurred for:  (a) water treatment chemicals and lubricants; (b) water, gas, and 
electric service (not for power generation); and (c) waste water treatment.  
 
 ATFI (Avoidable Taxes, Fees and Insurance) consists of avoidable 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 115 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 2 
expenses related directly to the generating unit proposed for Deactivation incurred 
in the twelve months preceding the Generation Owner’s notice pursuant to section 
113.1 of this Tariff.  The categories of expenses included in AFTI are those 
incurred for:  (a) insurance; (b) permits and licensing fees; (c) site security and 
utilities for maintaining security at the site; and (d) property taxes.   
 
 ACC (Avoidable Carrying Charges) consists of avoidable short term 
carrying charges related directly to the generating unit proposed for Deactivation 
in the twelve months preceding the Generation Owner’s notice pursuant to section 
113.1 of this Tariff.  Avoidable short term carrying charges shall include short 
term carrying charges for maintaining reasonable levels of inventories of fuel and 
spare parts that result from short-term operational unit decisions as measured by 
industry best practice standards.  For the purpose of determining ACC, short term 
is the time period in which a reasonable replacement of inventory for normal, 
expected operations can occur. 
 
 ACLE (Avoidable Corporate Level Expenses) consists of avoidable 
corporate level expenses directly related to the generating unit proposed for 
Deactivation incurred in the twelve months preceding the Generation Owner’s 
notice pursuant to section 113.1 of this Tariff.  Avoidable corporate level 
expenses shall include only such expenses that are directly linked to providing 
tangible services required for the operation of the generating unit proposed for 
Deactivation.  The categories of avoidable expenses included in ACLE are those 
incurred for: (a) legal services; (b) environmental reporting; and (c) procurement 
expenses. 
 
The Avoidable Project Investment Recovery Rate (APIR) for a generating unit proposed for 
Deactivation shall be determined using the following formula: 
 
 APIR (Avoidable Project Investment Recovery Rate) = PI/NMR 
 
Where: 
 
PI is the amount of project investment required to enable a generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation to continue operating beyond its proposed 
Deactivation Date. 
 
NMR is the number of months beyond the proposed Deactivation Date of a 
generating unit proposed for Deactivation that the Transmission Provider has 
specified in its updated estimate pursuant to section 113.2 of this Tariff that 
such generating unit shall be required to operate.  
 
PI recovered through the APIR, shall not commence before the in-service date of the PI.  The 
amount recovered through the APIR shall not exceed the actual amount of the PI.    
 
For the purpose of determining Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate, avoidable expenses are 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 115 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 3 
incremental expenses directly required for the operation of a generating unit proposed for 
Deactivation that a Generation Owner would not incur if such generating unit deactivated on its 
proposed Deactivation Date rather than continuing to operate beyond its proposed Deactivation 
Date.  A generating unit owner shall direct all inquiries regarding avoidable expenses to the 
Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
For the purpose of determining a Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate, avoidable expenses shall 
exclude variable costs recoverable under cost-based offers to sell energy from operating capacity 
on the PJM Interchange Energy Market under the Operating Agreement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 116 Filing 
and Updating of Deactivation Avoidable Cost 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
116 Filing and Updating of Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
 
As of the proposed Deactivation Date of a generating unit or as of the day prior to the effective 
date of an updated Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate, the Generation Owner or its Designated 
Agent shall file with the Commission, for informational purposes, the Deactivation Avoidable 
Cost Rate, along with applicable cost support and a certification by an officer of the Generation 
Owner or its Designated Agent attesting to the accuracy of the Deactivation Avoidable Cost 
Rate.  Generation Owner or its Designated Agent may update the Deactivation Avoidable Cost 
Rate annually, as well as, following materially adverse unforeseen circumstances affecting the 
unit that increase the costs incurred by the Generation Owner.  Generation Owner, or its 
Designated Agent, shall provide Transmission Provider with a copy of informational filings 
submitted pursuant to this section 116.  Crediting of the Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit to 
the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent by the Transmission Provider shall commence on 
the later of the day following the date of this informational filing or the proposed Deactivation 
Date of the Generation Owner’s generating unit. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 117 
[Reserved] 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
117 [Reserved] 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 118 Refund 
of Project Investment Reimbursement: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
118 Refund of Project Investment Reimbursement: 
 
In the event that the Generation Owner’s PI in the generating unit proposed for Deactivation and 
credited through the APIR set forth in Tariff, Part V, section 115 enables the generating unit to 
remain operational beyond the completion date of the necessary Transmission System reliability 
upgrades that would alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the Deactivation of the 
generating unit, or the date that the Transmission Provider otherwise determines, in accordance 
with established reliability criteria, that the continued operation of the generating unit is no 
longer necessary for the reliability of the Transmission System, and the generating unit remains 
in service beyond such date, the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent shall refund 
Transmission Provider a pro-rata share of the amount of any PI for which it received 
reimbursement pursuant to the APIR set forth in Tariff, Part V, section 115.  The Refund of 
Project Investment Reimbursement shall be determined using the following formula: 
 
Refund of Project Investment Reimbursement = ((Number of months the PI permits the 
generating unit proposed for Deactivation to operate – The number of months Transmission 
Provider determines is required to construct the Transmission System reliability upgrades 
necessary to alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the Deactivation of the generating 
unit) / (Number of months the PI permits the generating unit proposed for Deactivation to 
operate)) * (The amount of the PI/ (Number of months the PI allows the generating unit 
proposed for Deactivation to continue to operate past the completion date of the necessary 
Transmission System reliability upgrades that would alleviate the reliability impact resulting 
from the Deactivation of the generating unit, or the date that the Transmission Provider 
otherwise determines, in accordance with established reliability criteria, that the continued 
operation of the generating unit is no longer necessary for the reliability of the Transmission 
System)). 
 
Where: 
 
The number of months the PI permits the generating unit proposed for Deactivation to 
operate is determined by the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent and verified by an 
independent entity. 
 
Generation Owner or its Designated Agent shall make the Refund of Project Investment 
Reimbursement each month for the number of months the PI allows the generating unit proposed 
for Deactivation to continue to operate past the completion date of the necessary Transmission 
System reliability upgrades that would alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the 
Deactivation of the generating unit, or the date that the Transmission Provider otherwise 
determines, in accordance with established reliability criteria, that the continued operation of the 
generating unit is no longer necessary for the reliability of the Transmission System and shall be 
credited to transmission customers in such month on the same basis as costs are allocated under 
section 120.  The months the generating unit proposed for Deactivation continues to operate past 
the completion date of the necessary Transmission System reliability upgrades that would 
alleviate the reliability impact resulting from the Deactivation of the generating unit, or the date 
that the Transmission Provider otherwise determines, in accordance with established reliability 
criteria, that the continued operation of the generating unit is no longer necessary for the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 118 Refund 
of Project Investment Reimbursement: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 2 
reliability of the Transmission System need not be continuous, and the Refund of Project 
Investment Reimbursement will continue regardless of ownership of the generating unit. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 118A 
Recovery of Project Investment: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
118A Recovery of Project Investment: 
 
A Generation Owner or its Designated Agent shall be entitled to continue to recover its PI costs 
under Tariff, Part V, section 115 in situations where the Transmission Provider subsequently 
determines the generation unit is no longer needed for reliability of the Transmission System and 
the generating unit is deactivated prior to recovering its PI costs; provided however, that any PI 
cost recovery pursuant to this section shall be net of any PI reimbursements already credited to 
the Generation Owner to its Designated Agent pursuant to the APIR set forth in Tariff, Part V, 
section 115. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 119 Cost of 
Service Recovery Rate: 
Effective Date: 5/5/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1501-000 - Page 1 
119 Cost of Service Recovery Rate: 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Part V of this Tariff, a Generation Owner with a 
generating unit proposed for Deactivation that continues operating beyond its proposed 
Deactivation Date may file with the Commission a cost of service rate to recover the entire cost 
of operating the generating unit until such time as the generating unit is deactivated pursuant to 
this Part V (“Cost of Service Recovery Rate”).  In the event that the Generation Owner or its 
Designated Agent files a rate pursuant to this section 119, the Generation Owner shall not be 
eligible to receive Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credits, except as provided pursuant to this 
section 119, and PJMSettlement shall pay the Generation Owner the Cost of Service Recovery 
Rate accepted by the Commission commencing on the effective date established by the 
Commission for the rate.  In the event the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent already is 
receiving Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credits, prior to filing an Cost of Service Recovery Rate, 
such Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credits will cease as of the date that the Generation Owner or 
its Designated Agent files its Cost of Service Recovery Rate, and PJMSettlement shall begin 
paying the Generation Owner or its Designated Agent the Cost of Service Recovery Rate 
accepted by the Commission commencing on the effective date established by the Commission 
for the rate.   
 
A generating resource owner shall direct all inquiries regarding avoidable expenses to the Market 
Monitoring Unit.  If a generating resource owner includes a cost component inconsistent with its 
agreement or inconsistent with the Market Monitoring Unit’s determination regarding such cost 
components, the Market Monitoring Unit may petition the Commission for an order that would 
require the generating resource owner to include an appropriate cost component.  This provision 
is duplicated in section IV.2 of Attachment M – Appendix. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 120 Cost 
Allocation: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
120 Cost Allocation: 
 
The costs incurred to compensate Generation Owners pursuant to this Part V of this Tariff shall 
be an additional transmission charge allocated to the load in the Zone(s) of the Transmission 
Owner(s) that will be assigned financial responsibility for the reliability upgrades necessary to 
alleviate the reliability impact that would result from the Deactivation of the generating unit and 
this new charge shall be collected monthly from such loads in addition to all other charges for 
transmission service to such loads. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 121 
Performance Standards: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
121 Performance Standards: 
 
A generating unit proposed for Deactivation that continues to operate for reliability beyond its 
desired Deactivation Date pursuant to Part V of the Tariff shall continue to be operated 
according to existing standards applicable to generating units located in the PJM Region.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 122 Black 
Start Units: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
122 Black Start Units: 
 
Nothing in this Part V of the Tariff relieves owners of Black Start Units of any obligations or 
requirements set forth in Schedule 6A of the Tariff, including (a) the two year rolling 
commitment to provide Black Start Service; (b) the notice requirements for terminating such 
commitment; or (c) the forfeiture of Black Start Service revenues for failure to fulfill such 
commitment. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT V. GENERATION DEACTIVATION --> OATT 123-199 
[Reserved] 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
123-199 [Reserved] 
 

