[PART I-COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS - Part 5 of 5]

3.5 Operating Reserve - Synchronized Reserve Service: 
 
Where applicable the rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 5. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.6 Operating Reserve - Supplemental Reserve Service 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3.6 Operating Reserve - Supplemental Reserve Service: 
 
Where applicable the rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 6. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3B PJM 
Administrative Service 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3B PJM Administrative Service 
 
The Transmission Provider shall recover the costs of the operation of PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. and the Office of the Interconnection from Transmission Customers, and from other users 
of the various PJM services, under Tariff, Schedule 9 “PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
Administrative Services”. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3C Mid-
Atlantic Area Council Charge 
Effective Date: 7/18/2012 - Docket #: ER12-1784-000 - Page 1 
3C [RESERVED] 
 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3D 
Transitional Market Expansion Charge 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
3D [Reserved]   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3E
 Transmission Enhancement Charges 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3E Transmission Enhancement Charges 
 
The Transmission Provider shall collect from designated customers using Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service and Network Integration Transmission Service the charges of 
Transmission Owners related to the costs of Required Transmission Enhancements under Tariff, 
Schedule 12 “Transmission Enhancement Charges”. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3F 
Transmission Losses 
Effective Date: 8/1/2012 - Docket #: ER12-1929-001 - Page 1 
3F Transmission Losses 
 
3F.1 Description of Transmission Losses. 
 
Transmission losses refer to the loss of energy in the transmission of electricity from generation 
resources to load, which is dissipated as heat through transformers, transmission lines and other 
transmission facilities. 
 
3F.2 Inclusion of Transmission Losses. 
 
Whenever in this Tariff transmission losses are included in the determination of a charge, credit, 
load (including deviations), or demand reduction, it is explicitly so stated and such included 
losses shall be those losses incurred on all Transmission Facilities (to facilitate such calculation, 
Transmission Owners shall ensure that all such facilities are included in the PJM network model) 
and those losses incurred on generator step-up transformers that a Market Seller has not elected to 
remove from the loss calculation.  Absent such explicit statement, such losses are not included in 
the determination. 
 
3F.3 Other Losses. 
 
Losses incurred on facilities other than those addressed in the preceding section may be included 
in the determination of charges, credits, load (including real-time deviations), or demand 
reductions, as determined by electric distribution companies, unless this Tariff explicitly 
excludes such losses. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 4 Open 
Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
4 Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 4 Open 
Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) --> OATT 4.1 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
4.1 
 
Terms and conditions regarding Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) and 
standards of conduct are set forth in 18 CFR § 37 of the Commission’s regulations (Open Access 
Same-Time Information System and Standards of Conduct for Public Utilities) and 18 CFR § 38 
of the Commission’s regulations (Business Practice Standards and Communication Protocols for 
Public Utilities).  For purposes of the Standards of Conduct, a marketing affiliate of any party to 
the Operating Agreement is deemed to be a marketing affiliate of the Transmission Provider.  In 
the event available transfer capability as posted on the OASIS is insufficient to accommodate a 
request for firm transmission service, additional studies may be required as provided by this 
Tariff, Part II, section 19 and Tariff, Part III, section 32. 
 
The Transmission Provider shall post on OASIS and its public website an electronic link to all 
rules, standards and practices that (i) relate to the terms and conditions of transmission service, 
(ii) are not subject to a North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) copyright restriction, 
and (iii) are not otherwise included in this Tariff.  The Transmission Provider shall post on 
OASIS and on its public website an electronic link to the NAESB website where any rules, 
standards and practices that are protected by copyright may be obtained.  The Transmission 
Provider shall also post on OASIS and its public website an electronic link to a statement of the 
process by which the Transmission Provider shall add, delete or otherwise modify the rules, 
standards and practices that are not included in this tariff.  Such process shall set forth the means 
by which the Transmission Provider shall provide reasonable advance notice to Transmission 
Customers and Eligible Customers of any such additions, deletions or modifications, the 
associated effective date, and any additional implementation procedures that the Transmission 
Provider deems appropriate. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 4 Open 
Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) --> OATT 4.2 
Effective Date: 2/27/2026 - Docket #: ER25-2687-000 - Page 1 
4.2 
 
Pursuant to the Commission’s February 19, 2025 Final Rule, Order No. 676-K (190 FERC ¶ 
61,116) amending its regulations under the Federal Power Act, and the grant of waivers from 
specified provisions of WEQ-001, WEQ-002 and WEQ-003 approved by the Commission in PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., 151 FERC ¶ 61,141 (May 18, 2015), PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 178 
FERC ¶ 61,163 (March 7, 2022), PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 182 FERC ¶ 61,118 (Feb. 23, 
2023), PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 185 FERC ¶ 61,068 (Oct. 26, 2023), and in response to PJM’s 
compliance filings for Order No. 676-K, the Transmission Provider hereby incorporates by 
reference the following standards promulgated by the WEQ of the NAESB, effective February 27, 
2026:   
 
(1) WEQ-000, Abbreviations, Acronyms, and Definition of Terms, standard WEQ-
000-2 ([WEQ] Version 003.1, September 30, 2015), including only the definitions 
of Interconnection Time Monitor, Time Error, and Time Error Correction; 
 
(2) WEQ-000, Abbreviations, Acronyms, and Definition of Terms (excluding the 
WEQ cybersecurity standards), ([WEQ] Version 003.3, March 30, 2020); 
 
(3) To the extent not inconsistent with Transmission Provider’s current NITS practices 
and procedures, WEQ-001, Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) 
(excluding the WEQ cybersecurity standards), ([WEQ] Version 003.3, March 30, 
2020); excluding Standards 001-9.5, 001-10.5, 001-14.1.3, 001-15.1.2, 001-
106.2.5, 001-25 in its entirety, as well as the timing requirements established in 
001-23, to the extent not inconsistent with Transmission Provider’s current 
practice; 
 
(4) To the extent not inconsistent with Transmission Provider’s current NITS practices 
and procedures, WEQ-002, Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) 
Business Practice Standards and Communication Protocols (S&CP) (excluding the 
WEQ cybersecurity standards), ([WEQ] Version 003.3, March 30, 2020), 
excluding Business Practice Standards WEQ-002-4.3.6.6.1 and WEQ-002-
4.3.6.6.2; 
 
(5) To the extent not inconsistent with Transmission Provider’s current NITS practices 
and procedures, WEQ-003, Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) 
Data Dictionary (excluding the WEQ cybersecurity standards), ([WEQ] Version 
003.3, March 30, 2020);  
 
(6) WEQ-004, Coordinate Interchange ([WEQ] Version 003.3, March 30, 2020); 
 
(7) WEQ-005, Area Control Error (ACE) Equation Special Cases ([WEQ] Version 
003.3, March 30, 2020); 
 
(8) WEQ-006, Manual Time Error Correction ([WEQ] Version 003.1, Sept. 30, 2015);  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 4 Open 
Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) --> OATT 4.2 
Effective Date: 2/27/2026 - Docket #: ER25-2687-000 - Page 2 
(9) WEQ-007, Inadvertent Interchange Payback ([WEQ] Version 003.3, March 30, 
2020); 
 
(10) WEQ-008, Transmission Loading Relief (TLR) – Eastern Interconnection ([WEQ] 
Version 003.3, March 30, 2020);   
 
(11) WEQ-011, Gas/Electric Coordination, ([WEQ] Version 003.3, March 30, 2020);  
 
(12) WEQ-012, Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) ([WEQ] Version 003.3, March 30, 
2020); 
 
(13) WEQ-013, Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) Implementation 
Guide, [OASIS] ([WEQ] Version 003.3, March 30, 2020);  
 
(14) WEQ-015, Measurement and Verification of Wholesale Electricity Demand 
Response ([WEQ] Version 003.3, March 30, 2020);  
 
(15) WEQ-021, Measurement and Verification of Energy Efficiency Products ([WEQ] 
Version 003.3, March 30, 2020); 
 
(16) WEQ–022, Electric Industry Registry ([WEQ] Version 003.3, March 30, 2020); 
 
(17) WEQ-023, Modeling ([WEQ] Version 003.3, March 30, 2020); and 
 
(18) WEQ-024, Cybersecurity ([WEQ] Version 004, July 31, 2023). 
 
The Commission has granted Transmission Provider with waivers of specified provisions of WEQ-
001, WEQ-002 and WEQ-003 as those Business Practice Standards relate to Service Across 
Multiple Transmission Systems (SAMTS) and Network Integration Transmission Service (NITS), 
Order on Compliance and Request for Waivers, 178 FERC ¶ 61,163 (March 7, 2022), PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., 182 FERC ¶ 61,118 (Feb. 23, 2023), and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., 
185 FERC ¶ 61,068 (Oct. 26, 2023).   
 
With respect to SAMTS, the Transmission Provider has adopted Tariff, Part II, section 17.9 and 
Tariff, Part II, section 18.4, specifying processing timelines for all short-term transmission service 
requests.  The Transmission Provider will process and set the status of a SAMTS request or 
reservation consistent with a non-SAMTS transaction and the customer may withdraw, annul or 
reduce their request or reservation without financial penalty in accordance with the Transmission 
Provider’s Regional Transmission and Energy Scheduling Practices document which can be found 
on the Transmission Provider’s website.  
 
With respect to NITS requests, the Transmission Provider has adopted rules in Tariff, Part III  
relating to the study and commitment of internal and external network resources and load 
designations, including Tariff, Part III, section 30 (relating to designation and termination of 
Network Resources), Tariff, Part III, section 31 (relating to the designation of Network Load), and 
Tariff, Part III, section 32 (relating to Initial Study procedures for NITS), all of which are subject, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 4 Open 
Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) --> OATT 4.2 
Effective Date: 2/27/2026 - Docket #: ER25-2687-000 - Page 3 
however, to the applicable requirements of PJM”s Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) rules as set 
forth in Tariff, Attachment DD and associated requirements as set forth in Transmission Provider’s 
FERC-filed Reliability Assurance Agreement Among Load Serving Entities (RAA) and associated 
Manuals.  Moreover, consistent with the Transmission Provider’s planning processes, Network 
Resources proposing to interconnect to the Transmission System in the PJM Region must comply 
with the terms, conditions, rules and procedures for interconnection as specified in Tariff, Part IV. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 5 Local 
Furnishing Bonds 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
5 Local Furnishing Bonds 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 5 Local 
Furnishing Bonds --> OATT 5.1 Transmission Owners That Own Facilities Financed by 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
5.1 Transmission Owners That Own Facilities Financed by Local Furnishing Bonds: 
 
This provision is applicable only to Transmission Owners that have financed facilities for the 
local furnishing of electric energy with tax-exempt bonds, as described in Section 142(f) of the 
Internal Revenue Code (“local furnishing bonds”).  Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
Tariff, the Transmission Provider shall not be required to provide transmission service to any 
Eligible Customer pursuant to this Tariff if the provision of such transmission service would 
jeopardize the tax-exempt status of any local furnishing bond(s) used to finance the Transmission 
Owner’s facilities that would be used in providing such transmission service. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 5 Local 
Furnishing Bonds --> OATT 5.2 Alternative Procedures for Requesting Transmission 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
5.2 Alternative Procedures for Requesting Transmission Service: 
 
(i) If the Transmission Owner determines that the provision of transmission service 
requested by an Eligible Customer would jeopardize the tax-exempt status of any local 
furnishing bond(s) used to finance its facilities that would be used in providing such transmission 
service, it shall advise the Transmission Provider and the Eligible Customer within thirty (30) 
days of the Transmission Provider’s receipt of the Completed Application. 
 
(ii) If the Eligible Customer thereafter renews its request for the same transmission service 
referred to in (i) by tendering an application under Section 211 of the Federal Power Act, the 
Transmission Owner, within ten (10) days of the Transmission Provider or the Transmission 
Owner receiving a copy of the Section 211 application, will waive its rights to a request for 
service under Section 213(a) of the Federal Power Act,  and to the issuance of a proposed order 
under Section 212(c).  The Commission, upon receipt of a Transmission Owner’s waiver of its 
rights to a request for service under Section 213(a) and to the issuance of a proposed order under 
Section 212(c) of the Federal Power Act, shall issue an order under Section 211 of the Federal 
Power Act.  Upon issuance of the order under Section 211 of the Federal Power Act, the 
Transmission Provider shall be required to provide the requested transmission service in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Tariff. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 6 
Reciprocity 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
6 Reciprocity 
 
A Transmission Customer receiving transmission service under this Tariff agrees to provide 
comparable transmission service that it is capable of providing to each Transmission Owner on 
similar terms and conditions over facilities used for the transmission of electric energy owned, 
controlled or operated by the Transmission Customer and over facilities used for the 
transmission of electric energy owned, controlled or operated by the Transmission Customer’s 
corporate Affiliates.  A Transmission Customer that is a member of or takes transmission service 
from, a power pool, Regional Transmission Group, Regional Transmission Organization (RTO), 
Independent System Operator (ISO) or other transmission organization approved by the 
Commission for the operation of transmission facilities also agrees to provide comparable 
transmission service to the transmission owning members of such power pool and Regional 
Transmission Group RTO, ISO, or other transmission organization on similar terms and 
conditions over facilities used for the transmission of electric energy owned, controlled or 
operated by the Transmission Customer and over facilities used for the transmission of electric 
energy owned, controlled or operated by the Transmission Customer’s corporate Affiliates.   
 
This reciprocity requirement applies not only to the Transmission Customer that obtains 
transmission service under the Tariff, but also to all parties to a transaction that involves the use 
of transmission service under the Tariff, including the power seller, buyer and any intermediary, 
such as a power marketer.  This reciprocity requirement also applies to any Eligible Customer 
that owns, controls or operates transmission facilities that uses an intermediary, such as a power 
marketer, to request transmission service under the Tariff.  If the Transmission Customer does 
not own, control or operate transmission facilities, it must include in its Application a sworn 
statement of one of its duly authorized officers or other representatives that the purpose of its 
Application is not to assist an Eligible Customer to avoid the requirements of this provision. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 
6A_Counterparty 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
6A Counterparty   
 
6A.1 PJM administers the Tariff and the Operating Agreement.  Under the Tariff and 
Operating Agreement, PJM administers the provision of transmission service and 
associated ancillary services to customers and operates and administers various 
centralized electric power and energy markets.  In obtaining transmission service 
and in these centralized markets, customers conduct transactions with 
PJMSettlement as a counterparty.  Market participants also may conduct bilateral 
transactions with other market participants and they may self-supply power and 
energy to the electric loads they serve.  Such bilateral and self-supply 
arrangements are not transactions with PJMSettlement.   
 
6A.2 For purposes of contracting with customers and conducting financial settlements 
regarding the use of the transmission capacity of the Transmission System, PJM 
has established PJMSettlement.  PJM also has established PJMSettlement as the 
entity that is the Counterparty with respect to the agreements and transactions in 
the centralized markets that the Transmission Provider administers under the 
Tariff and the Operating Agreement (i.e., the agreements and transactions that are 
not bilateral arrangements between market participants or self-supply).  
PJMSettlement will serve as the Counterparty to Financial Transmission Rights 
and Auction Revenue Rights instruments held by a Market Participant.  Any 
subsequent bilateral transfer of these instruments by the Market Participant to 
another Market Participant shall require the consent of PJM, but shall not 
implicate PJMSettlement as a contracting party with respect to such subsequent 
bilateral transfer.  
 
6A.3 As a party to the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, PJM has 
acquired the right to use the transmission capacity of the Transmission System 
that is required to provide service under this Tariff and the authorization to resell 
transmission service using such capacity on the Transmission System.  Under the 
Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, PJM compensates the 
Transmission Owners for the use of their transmission capacity by distributing 
certain revenues to the Transmission Owners as set forth in the Tariff and the 
Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement.  PJM has assigned its right to use 
the transmission capacity of the Transmission System to PJMSettlement.  
Accordingly, PJMSettlement shall compensate the Transmission Owners for the 
use of the transmission capacity required to provide service under this Tariff. 
 
6A.4 Unless otherwise expressly stated in the Tariff or the Operating Agreement, 
PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the customers purchasing 
Transmission Service and Network Integration Transmission Service, and to the 
other transactions with customers and other entities under the Tariff. 
 
6A.5 PJMSettlement shall not be a contracting party to other non-transmission 
transactions that are (i) bilateral transactions between market participants reported 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 
6A_Counterparty 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 2 
to the Transmission Provider, and (ii) self-supplied or self-scheduled transactions 
reported to the Transmission Provider.   
 
6A.6 Notwithstanding the foregoing, PJMSettlement shall not be the Counterparty with 
respect to agreements and transactions regarding the Transmission Provider’s 
administration of Tariff, Part IV, Tariff, Part VI, Schedule 1, Tariff, Part VI,  
Schedule 9 (excluding Schedule 9-PJMSettlement), Tariff, Part VI, Schedule10-
NERC, Tariff, Part VI,  Schedule 10-RFC, Tariff, Part VI, Schedule 14, Tariff, 
Part VI, Schedule 16, Tariff, Part VI, Schedule 16-A, and Tariff, Part VI, 
Schedule 17. 
 
6A.7 Confidentiality.  PJMSettlement shall be bound by the same confidentiality 
requirements as the Transmission Provider.   
 
6A.8 PJMSettlement Costs.  All costs of services provided by PJMSettlement for the 
benefit of Market Participants and Transmission Customers shall be included in 
the Administrative Services set forth in Tariff, Part VI, Schedule 9-
PJMSettlement. 
 
6A.9 Amendment of Previously Effective Arrangements.   
 
(a) Transmission Service Agreements.  Transmission Service Agreements in 
effect at the time this Section 6A becomes effective shall be deemed to be 
revised to include PJMSettlement as a Counterparty to the Transmission 
Service Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent as 
agreements entered after the effective date of this Section 6A.   
 
(b) Reliability Pricing Model.  PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the 
transactions arising from the cleared Based Residual Auctions and 
Incremental Auctions that occurred prior to the effective date of this 
Section 6A and for which delivery will occur after the effective date of 
this Section 6A in the same manner and to the same extent as transactions 
arising from auctions cleared after the effective date of this Section 6A.   
 
(c) Auction Revenue Rights and Financial Transmission Rights. 
PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty with respect to the rights and 
obligations arising from Auction Revenue Rights and Financial 
Transmission Rights acquired in an auction or assigned by PJM prior to 
the effective date of this Section 6A to the same extent as with respect to 
rights and obligations arising from auctions or assignments of Auction 
Revenue Rights and Financial Transmission Rights after the effective date 
of this Section 6A. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 7 Billing 
and Payment 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
7 Billing and Payment 
 
PJMSettlement shall issue bills and billing statements pursuant to the provisions in this section 7 
in its own name and as agent for Transmission Provider, as applicable.  Payment of bills pursuant 
to this section 7 shall be made for the benefit of PJMSettlement and Trasnmission Provider, as applicable. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 7 Billing 
and Payment --> OATT 7.1 Billing Procedure 
Effective Date: 6/1/2023 - Docket #: ER23-1431-000 - Page 1 
7.1 Billing Procedure: 
 
(a) Monthly Bills. 
 
By the fifth Business Day of each month, PJMSettlement, in its own name and as agent 
for Transmission Provider, as applicable,  shall issue a bill to Transmission Customers 
and other entities for monthly activity and detailing the charges and credits for all 
services furnished under the Tariff during the preceding month (“billing month”), 
excluding amounts billed pursuant to weekly bills for activity during the preceding 
month. 
 
(b) Weekly Bills. 
 
By 5:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time each Tuesday (or Wednesday in the event that a 
Tuesday is a holiday), PJMSettlement, in its own name and as agent for Transmission 
Provider, as applicable,  will issue a weekly bill to Members and other entities for all 
activity for certain services furnished under the Tariff for the days of the billing month 
during the week ending the prior Wednesday.  The services for which such weekly bills 
shall be issued are set forth in PJM Manual 29.   
 
(c) Billing Statement. 
 
PJMSettlement, in its own name and as agent for Transmission Provider, as applicable,  
shall provide Transmission Customers and other entities with billing statements at the 
time of issuance of the monthly and weekly bills, reflecting, in the form and manner set 
forth in PJM Manuals, the Transmission Customer’s or other entity’s activity during the 
billing month and amounts due, net of activity previously billed.   
 
(d)   Market Suspensions:  
 
For a Market Suspension that is less than or equal to 24 consecutive hours and where 
Day-ahead Prices and all data necessary to calculate the services is available in advance 
of the time needed for processing the bill, the timelines listed in subsections (a) and (b) 
shall apply.  For all other Market Suspensions, billing activity as defined in subsection (b) 
will be included in a weekly bill that is issued at least five business days from the date on 
which PJM Settlement receives all data necessary to calculate the services included in the 
weekly bill for such Market Suspension. If there are no remaining weekly bills for the 
billing month associated with such Market Suspension, the billing activity as defined in 
subsection (b) will be billed in the next monthly bill that is issued at least five business 
days from the date on which PJM Settlement receives all data necessary to calculate the 
services. All other billing services for such Market Suspension will be billed within three 
calendar months after the calendar month that included such Market Suspension. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 7 Billing 
and Payment --> OATT 7.1A Payments 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
7.1A Payments: 
 
(a) Monthly Bills. 
 
Net amounts due to PJMSettlement, in its own name or as agent for Transmission 
Provider, as applicable, pursuant to a monthly bill shall be due and payable by the 
Transmission Customer or other entity no later than noon Eastern Prevailing Time on the 
due date of the first weekly bill issued for activity in the month that the monthly bill is 
issued.  It is possible, due to the timing of holidays, that the billing and payment cycle for 
monthly bills stated here would call for payment of a monthly bill on a Friday that occurs 
less than three Business Days after issuance of the bill by PJM.  Where this occurs, the 
payment period of the monthly bill will be extended such that payment will be due when 
payment for the second weekly bill is due. 
 
(b) Weekly Bills. 
 
Net amounts due to PJMSettlement, in its own name or as agent for Transmission 
Provider, as applicable, pursuant to a weekly bill shall be due and payable by the 
Transmission Customer or other entity no later than noon Eastern Prevailing Time on the 
third Business Day following the issuance of the weekly bill.  Weekly bills issued after 
5:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time shall be considered to be issued the following 
Business Day 
 
(i)  Municipal Electric Systems. 
 
Recognizing that municipal electric systems may, at times, face unique 
circumstances that could temporarily prevent their ability to make payments on a 
weekly bill issued pursuant to section 7.1(b) above when due, the Transmission 
Provider may allow a municipal electric system to make arrangement with PJM 
whereby PJM would extend trade credit to the municipal electric system sufficient 
to enable it to make payment on a weekly bill  provided that the following 
conditions are met: 
 
(a) the Transmission Provider determines, in its sole discretion, that it has 
sufficient excess working capital available to complete financial settlement with 
other market participants; 
 
(b) the municipal electric system reimburses PJM for the actual cost of such 
working capital; 
 
(c) the municipal electric system provides PJM with a binding representation that 
it has all legal right and authority to enter into the arrangement with PJM; 
 
(d) PJMSettlement will continue to issue weekly bills to the municipal electric 
system in accordance with section 7.1(b) above and the municipal electric system 
will make payment as due under the weekly bills using the proceeds it obtains 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 7 Billing 
and Payment --> OATT 7.1A Payments 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 2 
under its arrangement with PJM.  Reimbursement of these amounts, including 
PJM’s actual costs of working capital, shall be due from the municipal electric 
system at the time payment is due for the invoice issued under section 7.1A(a) 
above; 
 
(e) the aggregate of all financed amounts and accrued obligations shall not exceed 
the Working Credit Limit available to the municipal electric system; 
 
(f) the municipal electric system provides the Transmission Provider with at least 
one week of notice (though PJM may waive this provision), and; 
 
(g) the accumulated duration of such postponed payments shall not exceed three 
months in a rolling twelve-month period. 
 
PJM may terminate this payment option at any time it determines its excess working capital is no 
longer sufficient to allow further or continued extension financing.  In such cases, PJM shall 
attempt to give five Business Days, but not less than three Business Days notice to the affected 
municipal electric system, and may call for immediate reimbursement of any outstanding 
amounts owed by the municipal electric system.   
 
(c) Form of Payments. 
 
All payments tendered in satisfaction of a Transmission Customer’s or other entity’s 
obligations to PJMSettlement or Transmission Provider shall be in the form of 
immediately available funds payable to PJMSettlement, or by wire transfer to a bank 
named by PJMSettlement.   
 
(d) Payments by PJMSettlement. 
 
Unless delayed by unforeseen events, payments made by PJMSettlement, in its own name 
or as agent for Transmission Provider, for amounts due to Transmission Customers and 
other entities shall be paid no later than 5:00 p.m. Eastern Prevailing Time on the 
Business Day following the payment due date for net amounts owed to PJMSettlement, in 
its own name or as agent for the Transmission Provider, as specified above.   
 
(e) Payment Calendar. 
 
A comprehensive billing and settlement calendar will be posted on Transmission 
Provider’s website prior to March 31 for the upcoming June – May annual period to 
communicate the schedule of holidays for settlement and billing purposes. 
 
(f) Late Payments. 
 
In the event that a Transmission Customer, or other entity, is delinquent in paying the 
amount set forth in its weekly or monthly bill two or more times within any rolling 
twelve (12) month period, PJMSettlement, in its own name or as agent for Transmission 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 7 Billing 
and Payment --> OATT 7.1A Payments 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 3 
Provider, may assess, in addition to the interest on each late payment as provided for in 
Tariff, Part I, section 7.2, a late payment charge for a second and any subsequent failure 
to pay on time during such twelve (12) month period (a “Late Payment Charge”).  The 
applicable Late Payment Charge will be assessed in an amount equal to the greater of:  (i) 
two percent (2%) of the total amount set forth in the monthly or weekly bill that the 
Transmission Customer or other entity has been late in paying, or (ii) $1,000; up to a 
maximum of $100,000 per late bill payment.  For the sole purpose of application of this 
section 7.1A(f), weekly and monthly bills that are due on the same date shall be 
considered to be one bill; moreover, the term “on time” shall mean payment received on 
the date due; and “delinquent” shall mean any payment received on a day subsequent to 
the date due. 
 
Late Payment Charges that are collected pursuant to this section 7.1A(f) shall be credited 
to PJMSettlement administrative costs and will be included in any applicable stated rate 
refund calculations as contemplated under Tariff, Schedule 9. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 7 Billing 
and Payment --> OATT 7.2 Interest on Unpaid Balances 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
7.2 Interest on Unpaid Balances: 
 
Interest on any unpaid amounts shall be calculated in accordance with the methodology specified 
for interest on refunds in the Commission’s regulations at 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a(a)(2)(iii).  Interest 
on delinquent amounts shall be calculated from the due date of the bill to the date of payment.  
When payments are made by mail, bills shall be considered as having been paid on the date of 
receipt by PJMSettlement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 7 Billing 
and Payment --> OATT 7.3 Customer Default 
Effective Date: 12/21/2021 - Docket #: ER22-172-000 - Page 1 
7.3 Customer Default: 
 
In the event the Transmission Customer or other entity (a) fails, for any reason, to make payment 
to PJMSettlement, for the benefit of PJMSettlement or the Transmission Provider, on or before 
the due date as described above, or (b) fails at any time to meet the Transmission Provider’s 
creditworthiness requirements, and such failure is not corrected within the applicable cure period 
described in Operating Agreement, section 15.1.5, a default by the Transmission Customer or 
other entity shall be deemed to exist.  Upon the occurrence of a default, the Transmission 
Provider may initiate a proceeding with the Commission to terminate service but shall not 
terminate service until the Commission so approves any such request; provided however, that (i) 
in the event that a state required retail access program provides for continuation of retail service 
to affected end-use customers by another supplier that is a Transmission Customer, then the 
Transmission Provider may, upon default by a Transmission Customer, immediately terminate 
Transmission Service to the defaulting Transmission Customer for the load of such end-use 
customers, and (ii) in the event that a Transmission Customer is taking service under Part II to 
serve load outside of the PJM Region, then the Transmission Provider may, upon default by a 
Transmission Customer, immediately terminate Transmission Service to the defaulting 
Transmission Customer.  Billing disputes between the Transmission Provider and the 
Transmission Customer or other entity shall be addressed through the Transmission Provider’s 
dispute resolution procedures, and shall not relieve the Transmission Customer or other entity of 
the obligation to make payment of all amounts due hereunder. 
 
If the Transmission Customer fails to meet these requirements for continuation of service, then 
the Transmission Provider may provide notice to the Transmission Customer of its intention to 
suspend service in sixty (60) days, in accordance with Commission policy, or, in the case of a 
state required retail access program that provides for continuation of retail service to affected 
end-use customers by another supplier that is a Transmission Customer, immediately terminate 
Transmission Service as provided above. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 8 
Accounting for a Transmission Owner’s Use of the Tari 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
8 Accounting for a Transmission Owner’s Use of the Tariff  
 
Each Transmission Owner shall record the following amounts, as outlined below. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 8 
Accounting for a Transmission Owner’s Use of the Tari --> OATT 8.1 Transmission Revenues: 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
8.1 Transmission Revenues: 
 
Include in a separate operating revenue account or subaccount the revenues it receives from 
Transmission Service when making Third-Party Sales under Tariff, Part II. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 8 
Accounting for a Transmission Owner’s Use of the Tari --> OATT 8.2 Study Costs and Revenues: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
8.2 Study Costs and Revenues: 
 
Include in a separate transmission operating expense account or subaccount, costs properly 
chargeable to expense that are  incurred to perform any System Impact Studies or Facilities 
Studies which the Transmission Owner conducts to determine if it must construct new 
transmission facilities or upgrades necessary for its own uses, including making Third-Party 
Sales under the Tariff; and include in a separate operating revenue account or subaccount the 
revenues received for System Impact Studies or Facilities Studies performed when such amounts 
are separately stated and identified in the Transmission Customer’s billing under the Tariff. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 8 
Accounting for a Transmission Owner’s Use of the Tari --> OATT 8.3 Generation Interconnection Costs: 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
8.3 Generation Interconnection Costs: 
 
Include in a separate transmission account or subaccount, costs of Attachment Facilities, Local 
Upgrades, and Network Upgrades that are incurred by the Transmission Owner with respect to 
its own Interconnection Requests under Tariff, Part IV that are directly assigned to the 
Transmission Owner to accommodate its Interconnection Requests in accordance with Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 6A. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 9 
Regulatory Filings 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
9 Regulatory Filings 
 
Nothing contained in the Tariff, any Service Agreement or any Network Operating Agreement 
shall be construed as affecting in any way the right of the Transmission Provider, or any 
Transmission Owner with respect to a change in its revenue requirement, to unilaterally make 
application to the Commission for a change in rates, terms and conditions, charges, classification 
of service, Service Agreement, Network Operating Agreement, rule or regulation under Section 
205 of the Federal Power Act and pursuant to the Commission’s rules and regulations 
promulgated thereunder. 
 
Nothing contained in the Tariff, any Service Agreement or any Network Operating Agreement 
shall be construed as affecting in any way the ability of any Party receiving service under the 
Tariff to exercise its rights under the Federal Power Act and pursuant to the Commission’s rules 
and regulations promulgated thereunder. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 9 
Regulatory Filings --> OATT 9.1 Rights of the Transmission Owners 
Effective Date: 11/19/2011 - Docket #: ER18-1905-001 - Page 1 
9.1 Rights of the Transmission Owners: 
 
(a) The Transmission Owners shall have the exclusive and unilateral rights to file pursuant to 
Section 205 of the Federal Power Act and the FERC’s rules and regulations thereunder for any 
changes in or relating to the establishment and recovery of the Transmission Owners’ 
transmission revenue requirements or the transmission rate design under the PJM Tariff, and 
such filing rights shall also encompass any provisions of the PJM Tariff governing the recovery 
of transmission-related costs incurred by the Transmission Owners.  Nothing herein is intended 
to limit or change the right of individual Transmission Owners under Section 2.2.1 of the PJM 
Tariff to make their own Section 205 filings to change the transmission revenue requirement 
within their own zones, including the right of individual Transmission Owners to file for zonal 
transmission revenue requirements based on incentive or performance factors. The Transmission 
Owners may only file under Section 205 to change the transmission rate design for the PJM 
Region pursuant to a filing approved in accordance with Section 8.5.1 of the Consolidated 
Transmission Owners Agreement.   
 
(b) If the Transmission Owners agree upon a change in accordance with Section 9.1(a), the 
Transmission Owners shall make such filing jointly pursuant to Section 205 of the Federal Power 
Act. For purposes of administrative convenience, at the request of the Transmission Owners, the 
Office of Interconnection may, but shall not be required to, make the Section 205 filing with the 
FERC on behalf of the Transmission Owners; provided that any such filing by the Office of 
Interconnection shall be deemed for all purposes under the Federal Power Act to be a filing of 
the Transmission Owners.  The Transmission Owners shall consult with PJM and the PJM 
Members Committee beginning no less than thirty (30) days prior to any Section 205 filing 
hereunder, but neither PJM (except as provided for in Section 9.3) nor the PJM Members 
Committee shall have any rights to veto or delay the Transmission Owners’ Section 205 filing 
hereunder; provided that the Transmission Owners may file with less than a full 30 day advance 
consultation in circumstances where imminent harm to system reliability or imminent severe 
economic harm to electric consumers requires a prompt Section 205 filing; provided further that 
the Transmission Owners shall provide as much advance notice and consultation with PJM and 
the PJM Members Committee as is practicable in such circumstances and no such filing shall be 
made with less than 24 hours’ advance notice.    
 
(c) Nothing herein is intended to limit the rights of the Transmission Owners, PJM or any 
other person to oppose such a Section 205 filing pursuant to Section 206 or any other applicable 
provision of the Federal Power Act. 
 
(d) In accordance with Section 9.1(a), the following provisions of the PJM Tariff and any 
successors thereto shall be within the Transmission Owners’ exclusive and unilateral rights to 
make Section 205 filings: Section 34; Schedule 1A; Schedule 7 (except as to transmission 
congestion charges under Attachment K to the PJM Tariff or any successor thereto); Schedule 8 
(except as to transmission congestion charges under Attachment K to the PJM Tariff or any 
successor thereto); Schedule 11; Schedule 12; Attachment H-A; Attachment J; and Attachment 
R, provided, however, that if a filing pursuant to Section 205 is required to effect a change in any 
of the foregoing provisions of the PJM Tariff solely by reason of a filing by an individual 
Transmission Owner pursuant to Section 9.1(e), PJM may make such filing if, (i) five business 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 9 
Regulatory Filings --> OATT 9.1 Rights of the Transmission Owners 
Effective Date: 11/19/2011 - Docket #: ER18-1905-001 - Page 2 
days prior to making such filing, PJM provides the Transmission Owners with each proposed 
change including an explanation thereof and (ii) no Transmission Owner notifies PJM that it 
objects to PJM making such filing. 
 
(e) In accordance with Section 9.1(a), the following provisions of the PJM Tariff and any 
successors thereto shall be within the exclusive and unilateral rights to make Section 205 filings 
of the individual Transmission Owner to which the provisions apply:  (i) Attachment H (other 
than Attachment H-A) (except as to transmission congestion charges under Attachment K to the 
PJM Tariff or any successor thereto); (ii) Attachment M-1 (First Energy); (iii) Attachment M-2 
(First Energy); (iv) Procedures for Load Determination (PSE&G); (v) Procedures for 
Determination of Peak Load Contributions and Hourly Load Obligations for Retail Customers 
(Atlantic City); and (vi) Procedures for Determination of Peak Load Contributions and Hourly 
Load Obligations for Retail Customers (Delmarva). 
 
(f) The listing of provisions in Sections (d) and (e) above is not exclusive, and the failure to 
specify a provision of the PJM Tariff in Section 9.1(d) or (e) shall not be deemed to be an 
admission or agreement by the Transmission Owners that such provision or any change thereto 
does not relate to the establishment and recovery of the Transmission Owners’ transmission 
revenue requirements or the transmission rate design under the PJM Tariff, or encompass any 
provisions of the PJM Tariff governing the recovery of transmission-related costs incurred by the 
Transmission Owners. The Transmission Owners reserve their rights to assert that other 
provisions of the PJM OATT should be included within their Section 205 rights, and PJM 
reserves its rights to contest such assertions. 
 
(g) The Transmission Owners’ Section 205 rights shall include the unilateral right to file for 
incentive and performance based rates that affect or relate to the establishment or recovery of 
transmission revenue requirements, transmission rate design, or any performance or incentive 
based rates in which the incentives to the Transmission Owners may be measured by savings or 
efficiencies  in the power or ancillary services markets resulting from the construction, operation 
or maintenance of transmission facilities.  Nothing in this Tariff is intended to limit PJM’s right 
to make Section 205 filings to establish incentive or performance based rates applicable to 
market participants, provided that PJM must obtain the prior approval of the Transmission 
Owners (pursuant to Section 8.5.1 of the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement) for any 
portion of such a filing that reasonably could be expected to affect the establishment and 
recovery of the Transmission Owners’ transmission revenue requirements, transmission rate 
design or recovery of transmission-related costs by the Transmission Owners. 
 
(h) Nothing contained in the Tariff, any Service Agreement or any Network Operating 
Agreement shall be construed as affecting in any way the exclusive and unilateral right of the 
Transmission Owners to make application to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for any 
change in accordance with this Section 9.1 under Section 205 of the Federal Power Act and 
pursuant to the Commission’s Rules and Regulations promulgated thereunder.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 9 
Regulatory Filings --> OATT 9.2 Rights of the Transmission Provider: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER18-1905-001 - Page 1 
9.2   Rights of the Transmission Provider: 
 
(a) PJM shall have the exclusive and unilateral right to file pursuant to Section 205 of the 
Federal Power Act and the FERC’s rules and regulations thereunder to make changes in or 
relating to the terms and conditions of the PJM Tariff (including but not limited to provisions 
relating to creditworthiness, billing, and defaults) as well as all charges for recovery of PJM 
costs.  PJM shall not have any Section 205 filing rights with respect to the subject matters 
described in the first sentence of Section 9.1(a) of this Tariff.  PJM shall not have any Section 
205 filing rights with respect to the provisions of the PJM Tariff listed in Section 9.1(d) and (e).  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, PJM shall have Section 205 filing rights to make changes in the 
PJM Tariff in order to address the Behind The Meter Generation netting rules in accordance with 
the settlement in FERC Docket No EL05-127-000 approved by the FERC on December 16, 
2005, 113 FERC ¶ 61,279. 
 
(b) PJM shall consult with the Transmission Owners and the PJM Members Committee 
beginning no less than seven (7) days in advance of any Section 205 filing under Section 9.2(a), 
but neither the Transmission Owners, except as provided for in Section 9.3, nor the PJM 
Members Committee shall have any right to veto or delay any such Section 205 filing.  PJM may 
file with less than a full 7 day advance consultation in circumstances where imminent harm to 
system reliability or imminent severe economic harm to electric consumers requires a prompt 
Section 205 filing; provided that PJM shall provide as much advance notice and consultation 
with the Transmission Owners and the PJM Members Committee as is practicable in such 
circumstances, and no such emergency filing shall be made with less than 24 hours advance 
notice.  
 
(c) Nothing herein is intended to limit the rights of any Party or other person to oppose such 
a Section 205 filing pursuant to Section 206 or any other applicable provision of the Federal 
Power Act or to limit the right of any Party or other person to make filings under Section 206 of 
the Federal Power Act. 
 
(d) To the extent that PJM desires to add a provision to this Tariff, or to change an existing 
provision hereof, in accordance with its rights under Section 9.2(a), the Transmission Owners 
shall have unilateral and exclusive rights to make Section 205 filings with respect to any matters 
covered by such new or changed provisions relating to the establishment and recovery of the 
Transmission Owners’ transmission revenue requirements, transmission rate design under the 
PJM Tariff, or any provisions governing the recovery of transmission-related costs incurred by 
the Transmission Owners.  Prior to making any Section 205 filing covered by Section 9.2(a) that 
also relates to or affects the establishment and recovery of the Transmission Owners’ 
transmission revenue requirements, the transmission rate design under the PJM Tariff,  or any 
provisions governing the recovery of transmission-related costs incurred by the Transmission 
Owners, PJM shall provide no less than 45 days notice to the Transmission Owners of the 
intended filing in sufficient detail to provide them a reasonable opportunity to include 
appropriate provisions in the PJM Tariff governing these subjects, either through a Section 205 
filing by the Transmission Owners pursuant to Section 9.1(a) or approval by the Transmission 
Owners of the PJM proposal pursuant to Section 8.5.1 of the Consolidated Transmission Owners 
Agreement.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 9 
Regulatory Filings --> OATT 9.2 Rights of the Transmission Provider: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER18-1905-001 - Page 2 
 
(e) PJM shall be required to maintain in effect at all times provisions relating to the 
creditworthiness of all customers under this Tariff that are designed to provide reasonable 
assurances to the Transmission Owners, consistent with FERC orders and policies applicable to 
open access transmission services, that such customers will be able to pay for transmission 
services purchased hereunder. If at any time PJM intends to make a Section 205 filing to change 
the creditworthiness provisions of this Tariff, it shall provide no less than 30 days advance notice 
to, and consult with, the Transmission Owners and the PJM Members Committee. In the case of 
an emergency requiring immediate action, PJM shall not be required to provide 30 days advance 
notice but shall provide as much advance notice as is practicable in the circumstances, and in no 
circumstances may PJM make an emergency Section 205 filing without providing at least 24 
hours advance notice to the Transmission Owners. PJM shall further maintain at all times in the 
tariffs under which it recovers its costs comparable provisions, if any, for sharing among PJM 
members and/or transmission customers any shortfalls in the recovery of its own and the 
Transmission Owners’ costs due to defaults. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 9 
Regulatory Filings --> OATT 9.3 Disputes Regarding Filing Rights 
Effective Date: 11/19/2011 - Docket #: ER18-1905-001 - Page 1 
9.3 Disputes Regarding Filing Rights: 
 
If at the time that a proposal to change or amend any part of the PJM Tariff, or to add any new 
provision, is submitted to PJM or the Transmission Owners for consultation pursuant to Section 
9.1(b) or 9.2(b), a dispute arises as to which Party has Section 205 rights to make such filing, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) The Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement Administrative Committee 
and PJM shall meet promptly prior to the filing in order to resolve the dispute. Such 
resolution may include a joint Section 205 filing by the Transmission Owners and PJM. 
 
(ii) If the Transmission Owners propose to make the Section 205 filing, they shall 
defer such filing beyond the thirty (30) day notice and consultation period provided for in 
Section 9.1(b) for up to ten (10) additional days at the request of PJM to allow the dispute 
to be resolved. 
 
(iii) If PJM proposes to make the Section 205 filing it shall defer any filing beyond the 
seven (7) day notice and consultation period provided for in Section 9.2(b) for up to ten 
(10) additional days to allow the dispute to be resolved; 
 
(iv) In order to resolve a dispute, the agreement of the Transmission Owners must be 
obtained by vote in accordance with Section 8.5.1 of the Consolidated Transmission 
Owners Agreement; 
 
(v) If the Parties are unable to reach agreement among themselves, the matter shall be 
presented to and resolved by a Neutral Party chosen as follows and, except as provided in 
this Section 9.3(v), such resolution shall be binding on the Parties:  The Chairman of the 
Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement Administrative Committee (or his/her 
designee) and an executive of PJM chosen by the President shall choose the Neutral Party 
and shall have authority to enter into an agreement that will make the Neutral Party 
available on a prompt basis to resolve disputes hereunder, and any costs associated with 
the Neutral Party shall be shared equally between the Transmission Owners and PJM. 
The Chairman of the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement Administrative 
Committee (or his/her designee) and an executive of PJM chosen by the President may 
replace the Neutral Party at any time they mutually deem such action to be appropriate or 
necessary.  The decision of the Neutral Party as to which Parties have Section 205 rights 
hereunder shall be made within the period provided for consultation between the 
Transmission Owners and PJM as set forth in Sections 9.3(ii) or 9.2(iii), as applicable.  
Interested parties (including the Parties) may file a complaint seeking review by the 
FERC of the Neutral Party’s decision, and the FERC’s authority to interpret which 
Parties have Section 205 rights shall not be limited by the Neutral Party’s decision as it 
relates to these disputes. 
 
(vi) Nothing in this Section 9.3 is intended to limit the Parties’ rights to make filings 
pursuant to Section 206 of the Federal Power Act prior to resolution of such dispute. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 9 
Regulatory Filings --> OATT 9.4 Mobile Sierra: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER18-1905-001 - Page 1 
9.4 Mobile Sierra: 
 
Sections 9.1 through 9.4 of this Tariff shall be subject to change solely by written amendment 
executed by PJM and the Transmission Owners, with the Transmission Owners acting by vote in 
accordance with Section 8.5.1 of the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement.  It is the 
intent of this Section 9.4 that the FERC’s right to change Sections 9.1 through 9.4 shall be 
limited to the maximum extent permissible by law and that any such change shall be in 
accordance with the Mobile-Sierra public interest standard applicable to fixed rate agreements. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 10 Force 
Majeure and Indemnification 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
10 Force Majeure and Indemnification 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 10 Force 
Majeure and Indemnification --> OATT 10.1  Force Majeure for Transmission Service 
Effective Date: 4/1/2015 - Docket #: EL15-29-000 - Page 1 
10.1  Force Majeure for Transmission Service: 
 
An event of force majeure under this section shall mean any act of God, labor disturbance, act of 
the public enemy, war, insurrection, riot, fire, storm or flood, explosion, breakage or accident to 
machinery or equipment, any Curtailment, order, regulation or restriction imposed by 
governmental military or lawfully established civilian authorities, or any other cause beyond the 
control of the party claiming force majeure under this section 10.1 that prevents the 
Transmission Provider, any Transmission Owner or any Transmission Customer from fulfilling 
any obligation under this Tariff related to the provision of transmission service.  An event of 
force majeure does not include an act of negligence or intentional wrongdoing.  Neither the 
Transmission Provider, the Transmission Owners, PJMSettlement nor the Transmission 
Customer will be considered in default as to any obligation under this Tariff related to the 
provision of transmission service if prevented from fulfilling the obligation due to an event of 
force majeure as described in this section 10.1.  However, a party claiming force majeure whose 
performance under this Tariff is hindered by an event of force majeure as described in this 
section 10.1 shall make all reasonable efforts to perform its obligations under this Tariff. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 10 Force 
Majeure and Indemnification --> OATT 10.2 Liability: 
Effective Date: 7/18/2016 - Docket #: ER16-1737-000 - Page 1 
10.2  Liability: 
 
Neither the Transmission Provider, a Transmission Owner, PJMSettlement, nor a Generation 
Owner acting in good faith to implement or comply with the directives of the Transmission 
Provider shall be liable, whether based on contract, indemnification, warranty, tort, strict liability 
or otherwise, to any Transmission Customer, third party or other person for any damages 
whatsoever, including, without limitation, direct, incidental, consequential, punitive, special, 
exemplary, or indirect damages arising or resulting from any act or omission in any way 
associated with service provided under this Tariff or any Service Agreement hereunder, 
including, but not limited to, any act or omission that results in an interruption, deficiency or 
imperfection of service, except to the extent that the damages are direct damages that arise or 
result from the gross negligence or intentional misconduct of the Transmission Provider, the 
Transmission Owner, PJMSettlement, or the Generation Owner, as the case may be. 
 
To the extent that a Transmission Customer, third party or other person has a claim against the 
Transmission Provider, PJMSettlement, a Transmission Owner, or a Generation Owner acting in 
good faith to implement or comply with the directives of the Transmission Provider the amount 
of any judgment or arbitration award on such claim entered in favor of the Transmission 
Customer, third party or other person shall be limited to the value of the Transmission Provider’s 
PJM Net Assets or the Transmission Owner’s assets or the Generation Owner’s assets, as the 
case may be. The Transmission Customer, third party or other person may not seek to enforce 
any claims against the directors, managers, members, shareholders, officers or employees of the 
Transmission Provider, a Transmission Owner, or a Generation Owner acting in good faith to 
implement or comply with the directives of the Transmission Provider who shall have no 
personal liability for obligations of the Transmission Provider, a Transmission Owner, or a 
Generation Owner by reason of their status as directors, managers, members, shareholders, 
officers or employees of the Transmission Provider or a Transmission Owner or a Generation 
Owner; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall affect the obligations of any 
member of the Transmission Provider or PJMSettlement under the Operating Agreement or this 
Tariff or any schedule hereunder.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 10 Force 
Majeure and Indemnification --> OATT 10.3 Indemnification: 
Effective Date: 1/1/2011 - Docket #: ER11-2527-000 - Page 1 
10.3  Indemnification: 
 
The Transmission Customer shall at all times indemnify, defend, and save each Transmission 
Owner, the Transmission Provider, PJMSettlement, and each Generation Owner acting in good 
faith to implement or comply with the directives of the Transmission Provider, and their 
directors, managers, members, shareholders, officers and employees harmless from, any and all 
damages, losses, claims, including claims and actions relating to injury to or death of any person 
or damage to property, demands, suits, recoveries, costs and expenses, court costs, attorney fees, 
and all other obligations by or to third parties, arising out of or resulting from the Transmission 
Provider’s, PJMSettlement’s, a Transmission Owner’s, or a Generation Owner’s (acting in good 
faith to implement or comply with the directives of the Transmission Provider) performance of 
its obligations under this Tariff on behalf of the Transmission Customer, except in cases of 
negligence or intentional wrongdoing by such Transmission Owner, the Transmission Provider, 
or such Generation Owner acting in good faith to implement or comply with the directives of the 
Transmission Provider. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 10 Force 
Majeure and Indemnification --> OATT 10.4  Limitation on Claims 
Effective Date: 11/23/2020 - Docket #: ER20-2956-000 - Page 1 
10.4 Limitation on Claims: 
 
No adjustment in the billing for any service, transaction, or charge under the Tariff may 
be asserted by PJM, PJMSettlement, or any Member or Participant with respect to a 
month, if more than two years has elapsed since the first date upon which the billing for 
that month occurred.  PJMSettlement, on behalf of itself or as agent for PJM may make 
no adjustment to a Member’s or Participant’s bill with respect to a month for any service, 
transaction, or charge under this Tariff, if more than two years have elapsed since the first 
date upon which the billing for that month occurred, unless 1) a claim made by a Member 
or Participant in writing and addressed to the President of PJMSettlement seeking such 
adjustment has been received by PJMSettlement prior thereto or 2) PJM and/or 
PJMSettlement have notified the Member or Participant in writing of the need to make 
such an adjustment prior thereto. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 11 
Creditworthiness 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
11 Creditworthiness 
 
The Transmission Provider will specify its creditworthiness procedure in Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 12 
Dispute Resolution Procedures 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
12 Dispute Resolution Procedures 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 12 
Dispute Resolution Procedures --> OATT 12.1 Internal Dispute Resolution Procedures: 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
12.1  Internal Dispute Resolution Procedures: 
 
Any dispute between a Transmission Customer or New Service Customer, an affected 
Transmission Owner, or the Transmission Provider involving transmission or interconnection 
service under the Tariff (excluding applications for rate changes or other changes to the Tariff, or 
to any Service Agreement entered into under the Tariff, which shall be presented directly to the 
Commission for resolution) shall be referred to a designated senior representative of each of the 
parties to the dispute for resolution on an informal basis as promptly as practicable.  In the event 
the designated representatives are unable to resolve the dispute within thirty (30) days (or such 
other period as the parties to the dispute may agree upon) by mutual agreement, such dispute 
may be submitted to arbitration and resolved in accordance with the arbitration procedures set 
forth below. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 12 
Dispute Resolution Procedures --> OATT 12.2  External Arbitration Procedures: 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
12.2  External Arbitration Procedures: 
 
Any arbitration initiated under the Tariff shall be conducted before a single neutral arbitrator 
appointed by the parties to the dispute.  If the parties to the dispute fail to agree upon a single 
arbitrator within ten (10) days of the referral of the dispute to arbitration, the party or parties to 
the dispute demanding arbitration shall choose one arbitrator and the party or parties responding 
to the demand for arbitration shall choose another arbitrator, each of whom shall sit on a three-
member arbitration panel.  The two arbitrators so chosen shall within twenty (20) days select a 
third arbitrator to chair the arbitration panel.  In either case, the arbitrators shall be 
knowledgeable in electric utility matters, including electric transmission and bulk power issues, 
and shall not have any current or past substantial business or financial relationships with any 
party to the arbitration (except prior arbitration).  The arbitrator(s) shall provide each of the 
parties to the dispute an opportunity to be heard and, except as otherwise provided herein, shall 
generally conduct the arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the 
American Arbitration Association and any applicable Commission regulations. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 12 
Dispute Resolution Procedures --> OATT 12.3  Arbitration Decisions: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
12.3  Arbitration Decisions: 
 
Unless otherwise agreed, the arbitrator(s) shall render a decision within ninety (90) days of 
appointment and shall notify the   parties to the dispute in writing of such decision and the 
reasons therefor.  The arbitrator(s) shall be authorized only to interpret and apply the provisions 
of the Tariff and any Service Agreement entered into under the Tariff and shall have no power to 
modify or change any of the above in any manner.  The decision of the arbitrator(s) shall be final 
and binding upon the Parties, and judgment on the award may be entered in any court having 
jurisdiction.  The decision of the arbitrator(s) may be appealed solely on the grounds that the 
conduct of the arbitrator(s), or the decision itself, violated the standards set forth in the Federal 
Arbitration Act and/or the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act.  The final decision of the 
arbitrator must also be filed with the Commission if it affects jurisdictional rates, terms and 
conditions of service or facilities. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 12 
Dispute Resolution Procedures --> OATT 12.4  Costs: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
12.4  Costs: 
 
Each party to the dispute shall be responsible for its own costs incurred during the arbitration 
process and for the following costs, if applicable: 
 
(A) the cost of the arbitrator chosen by the  parties to the dispute to sit on the three 
member panel and a proportionate share of the cost of the third arbitrator chosen;  
 
(B) a proportionate share of the cost of the single arbitrator jointly chosen by the 
parties to the dispute; or 
 
(C) a proportionate share of the cost incurred by the Office of the Interconnection 
related to a dispute not involving the Office of the Interconnection. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 12 
Dispute Resolution Procedures --> OATT 12.5 Rights Under The Federal Power Act: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
12.5  Rights Under The Federal Power Act: 
 
Nothing in this section shall restrict the rights of any party to file a Complaint with the 
Commission under relevant provisions of the Federal Power Act. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 12A PJM 
Compliance Review 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
12A PJM Compliance Review 
 
The Office of the Interconnection determines whether an offer, bid, components of an offer or 
bid, or decision not to offer a committed resource complies with the PJM Market Rules. The 
Office of the Interconnection has the final authority to determine whether an offer, bid or 
decision not to offer a committed resource complies with the PJM Market Rules. The Office of 
the Interconnection may accept an offer, bid or decision not to offer a committed resource 
regardless of whether the Market Monitoring Unit has made a finding that such conduct raises 
market power concerns, unless the Commission issues an order determining that the offer or bid 
must be rejected prior to the clearing of the relevant RPM Auction. 
The Office of the Interconnection does not make determinations about market power, including, 
but not limited to, whether the level or value of inputs or a decision not to offer a committed 
resource involves the potential exercise of market power. Acceptance or rejection of an offer or 
bid by the Office of the Interconnection does not include an evaluation of whether such offer or 
bid represents a potential exercise of market power. 
A market participant may submit any offer or bid that it chooses or make a decision not to offer a 
committed resource, provided that the Office of the Interconnection determines that: (i) the 
market participant has participated in the review process conducted by the Market Monitoring 
Unit (without regard to whether an agreement is obtained) if required by the Tariff; (ii) offer is 
no higher, in the case of seller market power, or lower, in the case of buyer side market power, 
than the level to which the market participant has committed or agreed in the course of its 
participation in such review process; and (iii) the offer is compliant with the Tariff and PJM 
Manuals. The market participant assumes exclusive responsibility for any adverse findings at the 
Commission related to its offer. 
The Office of the Interconnection has the exclusive authority to administer the Tariff. The Office 
of the Interconnection has the exclusive authority to implement the PJM Market Rules, except 
with respect to Tariff, Attachment M and Tariff, Attachment M-Appendix and related provisions 
in the PJM Manuals. The Market Monitoring Unit has the exclusive authority to perform the 
functions set forth in Tariff, Attachment M and Tariff, Attachment M-Appendix. The Office of 
the Interconnection shall oversee compliance with PJM Market Rules and may take action on 
compliance issues and/or request that the Market Monitoring Unit take action on compliance 
issues. 
When the Tariff requires the Office of the Interconnection to provide written notice to or 
communication with a Market Participant, such notice or communication shall include, but not 
be limited to, a letter, email or posting to a Market Participant’s account in the internet-based 
application designated by the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
 

