[PART I-COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS - Part 4 of 5]

which the rating applies. 
 
(c) Is evaluated annually, if not more frequently, for each season in the future for which 
Transmission Service can be requested 
 
Secondary Reserve:  
 
“Secondary Reserve” shall mean the reserve capability of generation resources that can be 
converted fully into energy or Economic Load Response Participant resources whose demand can 
be reduced within 30 minutes (less the capability of such resources to provide Primary Reserve), 
from the request of the Office of the Interconnection, regardless of whether the equipment 
providing the reserve is electrically synchronized to the Transmission System or not. 
 
Secondary Systems: 
 
“Secondary Systems” shall mean control or power circuits that operate below 600 volts, AC or 
DC, including, but not limited to, any hardware, control or protective devices, cables, conductors, 
electric raceways, secondary equipment panels, transducers, batteries, chargers, and voltage and 
current transformers. 
 
Second Incremental Auction: 
 
“Second Incremental Auction” shall mean an Incremental Auction conducted ten months before 
the Delivery Year to which it relates.   
 
Security: 
 
“Security” shall mean the security provided by the New Service Customer pursuant to Tariff, 
section 212.4 or Tariff, Part VI, section 213.4 to secure the New Service Customer’s responsibility 
for Costs under the Interconnection Service Agreement or Upgrade Construction Service 
Agreement and Tariff, Part VI, section 217.  
 
Segment:  
“Segment” shall have the same meaning as described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 3.2.3(e). 
 
Self-Supply: 
 
“Self-Supply” shall mean Capacity Resources secured by a Load-Serving Entity, by ownership 
or contract, outside a Reliability Pricing Model Auction, and used to meet obligations under this 
Attachment or the Reliability Assurance Agreement through submission in a Base Residual 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 7 
Auction or an Incremental Auction of a Sell Offer indicating such Market Seller’s intent that 
such Capacity Resource be Self-Supply.  Self-Supply may be either committed regardless of 
clearing price or submitted as a Sell Offer with a price bid. A Load Serving Entity's Sell Offer 
with a price bid for an owned or contracted Capacity Resource shall not be deemed “Self-
Supply,” unless it is designated as Self-Supply and used by the LSE to meet obligations under 
this Attachment or the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Self-Supply Entity: 
 
“Self-Supply Entity” shall mean the following types of Load Serving Entity that operate under 
long-standing business models: single customer entity, public power entity, or vertically 
integrated utility, where “vertically integrated utility” means a utility that owns generation, 
includes such generation in its regulated rates, and earns a regulated return on its investment in 
such generation or receives any cost recovery for such generation through bilateral contracts; 
“single customer entity”  means a Load Serving Entity that serves at retail only customers that 
are under common control with such Load Serving Entity, where such control means holding 
51% or more of the voting securities or voting interests of the Load Serving Entity and all its 
retail customers; and “public power entity” means cooperative and municipal utilities, including 
public power supply entities comprised of either or both of the same and rural electric 
cooperatives, and joint action agencies. 
 
Self-Supply Seller: 
 
“Self-Supply Seller” shall mean, for purposes of evaluating Buyer-Side Market Power, the 
following types of Load Serving Entities that operate under long-standing business models: 
vertically integrated utility or public power entity, where “vertically integrated utility” means a 
utility that owns generation, includes such generation in its state-regulated rates, and earns a 
state-regulated return on its investment in such generation; and “public power entity” means 
electric cooperatives that are either rate regulated by the state or have their long-term resource 
plan approved or otherwise reviewed and accepted by a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory 
Authority and municipal utilities or joint action agencies that are subject to direct regulation by a 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority. 
 
Sell Offer: 
 
“Sell Offer” shall mean an offer to sell Capacity Resources in a Base Residual Auction, 
Incremental Auction, or Reliability Backstop Auction. 
 
Service Agreement: 
 
“Service Agreement” shall mean the initial agreement and any amendments or supplements thereto 
entered into by the Transmission Customer and the Transmission Provider for service under the 
Tariff. 
 
Service Commencement Date: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 8 
“Service Commencement Date” shall mean the date the Transmission Provider begins to provide 
service pursuant to the terms of an executed Service Agreement, or the date the Transmission 
Provider begins to provide service in accordance with Tariff, Part II, section 15.3 or Tariff, Part 
III, section 29.1. 
 
Short-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service: 
 
“Short-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service” shall mean Firm Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service under Tariff, Part II with a term of less than one year. 
 
Short-term Project: 
 
“Short-term Project” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Short-Term Resource Procurement Target: 
 
“Short-Term Resource Procurement Target” shall mean, for Delivery Years through May 31, 
2018, as to the PJM Region, for purposes of the Base Residual Auction, 2.5% of the PJM Region 
Reliability Requirement determined for such Base Residual Auction,  for purposes of the First 
Incremental Auction, 2% of the of the PJM Region Reliability Requirement as calculated at the 
time of the Base Residual Auction; and, for purposes of the Second Incremental Auction, 1.5% 
of the of the PJM Region Reliability Requirement as calculated at the time of the Base Residual 
Auction; and, as to any Zone, an allocation of the PJM Region Short-Term Resource 
Procurement Target based on the Preliminary Zonal Forecast Peak Load, reduced by the amount 
of load served under the FRR Alternative.  For any LDA, the LDA Short-Term Resource 
Procurement Target shall be the sum of the Short-Term Resource Procurement Targets of all 
Zones in the LDA. 
 
Short-Term Resource Procurement Target Applicable Share: 
 
“Short-Term Resource Procurement Target Applicable Share” shall mean, for Delivery Years 
through May 31, 2018: (i) for the PJM Region, as to the First and Second Incremental Auctions, 
0.2 times the Short-Term Resource Procurement Target used in the Base Residual Auction and, 
as to the Third Incremental Auction for the PJM Region, 0.6 times such target; and (ii) for an 
LDA, as to the First and Second Incremental Auctions, 0.2 times the Short-Term Resource 
Procurement Target used in the Base Residual Auction for such LDA and, as to the Third 
Incremental Auction, 0.6 times such target.  
 
Site: 
 
“Site” shall mean all of the real property, including but not limited to any leased real property and 
easements, on which the Customer Facility is situated and/or on which the Customer 
Interconnection Facilities are to be located. 
 
Small Commercial Customer: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 9 
“Small Commercial Customer,” as used in RAA, Schedule 6 and Tariff, Attachment DD-1, shall 
mean a commercial retail electric end-use customer of an electric distribution company that 
participates in a mass market demand response program under the jurisdiction of a RERRA and 
satisfies the definition of a “small commercial customer” under the terms of the applicable 
RERRA’s program, provided that the customer has an annual peak demand no greater than 
100kW. 
 
Small Generation Resource: 
 
“Small Generation Resource” shall mean an Interconnection Customer’s device of 20 MW or less 
for the production and/or storage for later injection of electricity identified in an Interconnection 
Request, but shall not include the Interconnection Customer’s Interconnection Facilities.  This 
term shall include Energy Storage Resources and/or other devices for storage for later injection of 
energy. 
 
Small Inverter Facility: 
 
“Small Inverter Facility” shall mean an Energy Resource that is a certified small inverter-based 
facility no larger than 10 kW. 
 
Small Inverter ISA: 
 
“Small Inverter ISA” shall mean an agreement among Transmission Provider, Interconnection 
Customer, and Interconnected Transmission Owner regarding interconnection of a Small Inverter 
Facility under Tariff, Part IV, section 112B. 
 
Special Member: 
 
 “Special Member” shall mean an entity that satisfies the requirements of Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 1.5A.02, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 1.5A.02, or the special membership provisions established under the Emergency Load 
Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Programs. 
 
Spot Market Backup: 
 
“Spot Market Backup” shall mean the purchase of energy from, or the delivery of energy to, the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market in quantities sufficient to complete the delivery or receipt 
obligations of a bilateral contract that has been curtailed or interrupted for any reason. 
 
Spot Market Energy: 
 
“Spot Market Energy” shall mean energy bought or sold by Market Participants through the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market at System Energy Prices determined as specified in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 2. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 10 
Start Additional Labor Costs: 
 
“Start Additional Labor Costs” shall mean additional labor costs for startup required above 
normal station manning levels.  
 
Start Fuel: 
 
For units without a soak process, “Start Fuel” shall consist of fuel consumed from first fire of the 
start process to first breaker closing, plus any fuel expended from last breaker opening to 
shutdown. 
 
For units with a soak process, “Start Fuel” is fuel consumed from first fire of the start process 
(initial reactor criticality for nuclear units) to dispatchable output (including auxiliary boiler 
fuel), plus any fuel expended from last breaker opening to shutdown, excluding normal plant 
heating/auxiliary equipment fuel requirements.  Start Fuel included for each temperature state 
from breaker closure to dispatchable output shall not exceed the unit specific soak time period 
reviewed and approved as part of the unit-specific parameter process detailed in Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.6(c) or the defaults below: 
• Cold Soak Time = 0.73 * unit specific Minimum Run Time (in hours) 
• Intermediate Soak Time = 0.61 * unit specific Minimum Run Time (in hours) 
• Hot Soak Time = 0.43 * unit specific Minimum Run Time (in hours)   
 
Start-Up Costs: 
 
“Start-Up Costs” shall consist primarily of the cost of fuel, as determined by the unit’s start heat 
input (adjusted by the performance factor) times the fuel cost.  It also includes operating costs, 
Maintenance Adders, emissions allowances/adders, and station service cost.  Start-Up Costs can 
vary with the unit offline time being categorized in three unit temperature conditions: hot, 
intermediate and cold. 
 
For units with a steam turbine and a soak process (nuclear, steam, and combined cycle), “Start 
Fuel” is fuel consumed from first fire of start process (initial reactor criticality for nuclear units): 
Start-Up Costs shall mean the net unit costs from PJM’s notification to the level at which the unit 
can follow PJM’s dispatch, and from last breaker open to shutdown. 
 
For units without a steam turbine and no soak process (engines, combustion turbines, Intermittent 
Resources, and Energy Storage Resources): Start-Up Costs shall mean the unit costs from PJM’s 
notification to first breaker close and from last breaker open to shutdown.   
 
State: 
 
“State” shall mean the District of Columbia and any State or Commonwealth of the United States. 
 
State Commission: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 11 
“State Commission” shall mean any state regulatory agency having jurisdiction over retail 
electricity sales in any State in the PJM Region. 
 
State Estimator: 
 
“State Estimator” shall mean the computer model of power flows specified in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2.3 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 2.3. 
 
State Subsidy: 
 
“State Subsidy” shall mean a direct or indirect payment, concession, rebate, subsidy, non-
bypassable consumer charge, or other financial benefit that is as a result of any action, mandated 
process, or sponsored process of a state government, a political subdivision or agency of a state, 
or an electric cooperative formed pursuant to state law, and that  
(1) is derived from or connected to the procurement of (a) electricity or electric generation 
capacity sold at wholesale in interstate commerce, or (b) an attribute of the generation 
process for electricity or electric generation capacity sold at wholesale in interstate 
commerce; or 
(2) will support the construction, development, or operation of a new or existing Capacity 
Resource; or  
(3) could have the effect of allowing the unit to clear in any PJM capacity auction.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, State Subsidy shall not include (a) payments, concessions, 
rebates, subsidies, or incentives designed to incent, or participation in a program, contract or 
other arrangement that utilizes criteria designed to incent or promote, general industrial 
development in an area or designed to incent siting facilities in that county or locality rather than 
another county or locality; (b) state action that imposes a tax or assesses a charge utilizing the 
parameters of a regional program on a given set of resources notwithstanding the tax or cost 
having indirect benefits on resources not subject to the tax or cost (e.g., Regional Greenhouse 
Gas Initiative); (c) any indirect benefits to a Capacity Resource as a result of any transmission 
project approved as part of the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan; (d) any contract, legally 
enforceable obligation, or rate pursuant to the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act or any other 
state-administered federal regulatory program (e.g., the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule); (e) any 
revenues from the sale or allocation, either direct or indirect, to an Entity Providing Supply 
Services to Default Retail Service Provider where such entity’s obligations was awarded through 
a state default procurement auction that was subject to independent oversight by a consultant or 
manager who certifies that the auction was conducted through a non-discriminatory and 
competitive bidding process, subject to the below condition, and provided further that nothing 
herein would exempt a Capacity Resource that would otherwise be subject to the minimum offer 
price rule pursuant to this Tariff; (f) any revenues for providing capacity as part of an FRR 
Capacity Plan or through bilateral transactions with FRR Entities; or (g) any voluntary and arm’s 
length bilateral transaction (including but not limited to those reported pursuant to Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 4.6), such as a power purchase agreement or other similar contract 
where the buyer is a Self-Supply Entity and the transaction is (1) a short term transaction (one-
year or less) or (2) a long-term transaction that is the result of a competitive process that was not 
fuel-specific and is not used for the purpose of supporting uneconomic construction, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 12 
development, or operation of the subject Capacity Resource, provided however that if the Self-
Supply Entity is responsible for offering the Capacity Resource into an RPM Auction, the 
specified amount of installed capacity purchased by such Self-Supply Entity shall be considered 
to receive a State Subsidy in the same manner, under the same conditions, and to the same extent 
as any other Capacity Resource of a Self-Supply Entity.  For purposes of subsection (e) of this 
definition, a state default procurement auction that has been certified to be a result of a non-
discriminatory and competitive bidding process shall: 
(i) have no conditions based on the ownership (except supplier diversity 
requirements or limits), location (except to meet PJM deliverability 
requirements), affiliation, fuel type, technology, or emissions of any resources or 
supply (except state-mandated renewable portfolio standards for which Capacity 
Resources are separately subject to the minimum offer price rule or eligible for an 
exemption); 
(ii) result in contracts between an Entity Providing Supply Services to Default Retail 
Service Provider and the electric distribution company for a retail default 
generation supply product and none of those contracts require that the retail 
obligation be sourced from any specific Capacity Resource or resource type as set 
forth in subsection (i) above; and 
(iii) establish market-based compensation for a retail default generation supply 
product that retail customers can avoid paying for by obtaining supply from a 
competitive retail supplier of their choice. 
 
State of Charge: 
 
“State of Charge” shall mean the quantity of physical energy stored in an Energy Storage 
Resource Model Participant or in the storage component of a Hybrid Resource in proportion to 
its maximum State of Charge capability. State of Charge is quantified as defined in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
State of Charge Management: 
 
“State of Charge Management” shall mean the control of State of Charge of an Energy Storage 
Resource Market Participant or Hybrid Resource using minimum and maximum discharge (and, 
as applicable, charge) limits, changes in operating mode (as applicable), discharging (and, as 
applicable, charging) offer curves, and self-scheduling of non-dispatchable sales (and, as 
applicable, purchases) of energy in the PJM markets.  State of Charge Management shall not 
interfere with the obligation of a Market Seller of an Energy Storage Resource Model Participant 
or of a Hybrid Resource to follow PJM dispatch, consistent with all other resources. 
 
Station Power: 
 
“Station Power” shall mean energy used for operating the electric equipment on the site of a 
generation facility located in the PJM Region or for the heating, lighting, air-conditioning and 
office equipment needs of buildings on the site of such a generation facility that are used in the 
operation, maintenance, or repair of the facility.  Station Power does not include any energy (i) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 13 
used to power synchronous condensers; (ii) used for pumping at a pumped storage facility; (iii) 
used in association with restoration or black start service; or (iv) that is Direct Charging Energy. 
 
Sub-Annual Resource Constraint: 
 
“Sub-Annual Resource Constraint” shall mean, for the 2017/2018 Delivery Year and for FRR 
Capacity Plans the 2017/2018 and 2018/2019 Delivery Years, for the PJM Region or for each 
LDA for which the Office of the Interconnection is required under Tariff, Attachment DD, 
section 5.10(a) to establish a separate VRR Curve for a Delivery Year, a limit on the total 
amount of Unforced Capacity that can be committed as Limited Demand Resources and 
Extended Summer Demand Resources for the 2017/2018 Delivery Year in the PJM Region or in 
such LDA, calculated as the Sub-Annual Resource Reliability Target for the PJM Region or for 
such LDA, respectively, minus the Short-Term Resource Procurement Target for the PJM 
Region or for such LDA, respectively.  
 
Sub-Annual Resource Price Decrement: 
 
“Sub-Annual Resource Price Decrement” shall mean, for the 2017/2018 Delivery Year, a 
difference between the clearing price for Extended Summer Demand Resources and the clearing 
price for Annual Resources, representing the cost to procure additional Annual Resources out of 
merit order when the Sub-Annual Resource Constraint is binding.  
 
Sub-Annual Resource Reliability Target:  
 
“Sub-Annual Reliability Target” for the PJM Region or an LDA, shall mean the maximum 
amount of the combination of Extended Summer Demand Resources and Limited Demand 
Resources in Unforced Capacity determined by PJM to be consistent with the maintenance of 
reliability, stated in Unforced Capacity, that shall be used to calculate the Minimum Annual 
Resource Requirement for Delivery Years through May 31, 2017 and the Sub-Annual Resource 
Constraint for the 2017/2018 and 2018/2019 Delivery Years.  As more fully set forth in the PJM 
Manuals, PJM calculates the Sub-Annual Resource Reliability Target, by first determining a 
reference annual loss of load expectation (“LOLE”) assuming no Demand Resources.  The 
calculation for the unconstrained portion of the PJM Region uses a daily distribution of loads 
under a range of weather scenarios (based on the most recent load forecast and iteratively 
shifting the load distributions to result in the Installed Reserve Margin established for the 
Delivery Year in question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative capacity 
availability distributions developed for the Installed Reserve Margin study for the Delivery Year 
in question).  The calculation for each relevant LDA uses a daily distribution of loads under a 
range of weather scenarios (based on the most recent load forecast for the Delivery Year in 
question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative capacity availability 
distributions developed for the Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective study for the Delivery 
Year in question).  For the relevant LDA calculation, the weekly capacity distributions are 
adjusted to reflect the Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit for the Delivery Year in question. 
 
For both the PJM Region and LDA analyses, PJM then models the commitment of varying 
amounts of DR (displacing otherwise committed generation) as interruptible from May 1 through 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 14 
October 31 and unavailable from November 1 through April 30 and calculates the LOLE at each 
DR level.  The Extended Summer DR Reliability Target is the DR amount, stated as a percentage 
of the unrestricted peak load, that produces no more than a ten percent increase in the LOLE, 
compared to the reference value.  The Sub-Annual Resource Reliability Target shall be 
expressed as a percentage of the forecasted peak load of the PJM Region or such LDA and is 
converted to Unforced Capacity by multiplying [the reliability target percentage] times [the 
Forecast Pool Requirement] times [the DR Factor] times [the forecasted peak load of the PJM 
Region or such LDA, reduced by the amount of load served under the FRR Alternative]. 
 
Sub-meter: 
 
“Sub-meter” shall mean a metering point for electricity consumption that does not include all 
electricity consumption for the end-use customer as defined by the electric distribution company 
account number.  PJM shall only accept sub-meter load data from end-use customers for 
measurement and verification of Regulation service as set forth in the Economic Load Response 
rules and PJM Manuals. 
 
Summer-Period Capacity Performance Resource: 
 
“Summer-Period Capacity Performance Resource” shall have the same meaning specified in 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.5A. 
 
Surplus Interconnection Customer: 
 
“Surplus Interconnection Customer” shall mean either an Interconnection Customer whose 
Generating Facility is already interconnected to the PJM Transmission System or one of its 
affiliates, or an unaffiliated entity that submits a Surplus Interconnection Request to utilize 
Surplus Interconnection Service within the Transmission System in the PJM Region.  A Surplus 
Interconnection Customer is not a New Service Customer.    
 
Surplus Interconnection Request: 
 
“Surplus Interconnection Request” shall mean a request submitted by a Surplus Interconnection 
Customer, pursuant to Tariff, Attachment RR, to utilize Surplus Interconnection Service within 
the Transmission System in the PJM Region.  A Surplus Interconnection Request is not a New 
Service Request. 
 
Surplus Interconnection Service: 
 
“Surplus Interconnection Service” shall mean any unneeded portion of Interconnection Service 
established in an Interconnection Service Agreement, such that if Surplus Interconnection Service 
is utilized, the total amount of Interconnection Service at the Point of Interconnection would 
remain the same. 
 
Switching and Tagging Rules: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 15 
“Switching and Tagging Rules” shall mean the switching and tagging procedures of 
Interconnected Transmission Owners and Interconnection Customer as they may be amended 
from time to time.  
 
Synchronized Reserve: 
 
“Synchronized Reserve” shall mean the reserve capability of generation resources that can be 
converted fully into energy or Economic Load Response Participant resources whose demand 
can be reduced within ten minutes from the request of the Office of the Interconnection 
dispatcher, and is provided by equipment that is electrically synchronized to the Transmission 
System. 
 
Synchronized Reserve Event: 
 
“Synchronized Reserve Event” shall mean a request from the Office of the Interconnection to 
generation resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources able, assigned or 
self-scheduled to provide Synchronized Reserve in one or more specified Reserve Zones or 
Reserve Sub-zones, within ten minutes, to increase the energy output or reduce load by the 
amount of assigned or self-scheduled Synchronized Reserve capability. 
 
Synchronized Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Synchronized Reserve Requirement” shall mean the megawatts required to be maintained in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone as Synchronized Reserve, absent any increase to account for 
additional reserves scheduled to address operational uncertainty.  The Synchronized Reserve 
Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  This requirement can only be 
satisfied by Synchronized Reserve resources. 
 
System Condition: 
 
“System Condition” shall mean a specified condition on the Transmission Provider’s system or on 
a neighboring system, such as a constrained transmission element or flowgate, that may trigger 
Curtailment of Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service using the curtailment 
priority pursuant to Tariff, Part II, section 13.6.  Such conditions must be identified in the 
Transmission Customer’s Service Agreement. 
 
System Energy Price: 
 
“System Energy Price” shall mean the energy component of the Locational Marginal Price, 
which is the price at which the Market Seller has offered to supply an additional increment of 
energy from a resource, calculated as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2 
and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2. 
 
System Impact Study: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 16 
“System Impact Study” shall mean an assessment by the Transmission Provider of (i) the adequacy 
of the Transmission System to accommodate a Completed Application, an Interconnection 
Request or an Upgrade Request, (ii) whether any additional costs may be incurred in order to 
provide such transmission service or to accommodate an Interconnection Request, and (iii) with 
respect to an Interconnection Request, an estimated date that an Interconnection Customer’s 
Customer Facility can be interconnected with the Transmission System and an estimate of the 
Interconnection Customer’s cost responsibility for the interconnection; and (iv) with respect to an 
Upgrade Request, the estimated cost of the requested system upgrades or expansion, or of the cost 
of the system upgrades or expansion, necessary to provide the requested incremental rights. 
 
System Protection Facilities: 
 
“System Protection Facilities” shall refer to the equipment required to protect (i) the Transmission 
System, other delivery systems and/or other generating systems connected to the Transmission 
System from faults or other electrical disturbance occurring at or on the Customer Facility, and (ii) 
the Customer Facility from faults or other electrical system disturbance occurring on the 
Transmission System or on other delivery systems and/or other generating systems to which the 
Transmission System is directly or indirectly connected.  System Protection Facilities shall include 
such protective and regulating devices as are identified in the Applicable Technical Requirements 
and Standards or that are required by Applicable Laws and Regulations or other Applicable 
Standards, or as are otherwise necessary to protect personnel and equipment and to minimize 
deleterious effects to the Transmission System arising from the Customer Facility. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 1 
Definitions – T – U - V 
 
Tangible Net Worth: 
 
“Tangible Net Worth” shall mean total assets less goodwill and other intangible assets, minus 
total liabilities.   
 
Target Allocation: 
 
“Target Allocation” shall mean the allocation of Transmission Congestion Credits as set forth in 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.3, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.2.3, or the allocation of Auction Revenue Rights Credits as 
set forth in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.3, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4.3. 
 
Third Incremental Auction: 
 
“Third Incremental Auction” shall mean an Incremental Auction conducted three months before 
the Delivery Year to which it relates. 
 
Third-Party Sale: 
 
“Third-Party Sale” shall mean any sale for resale in interstate commerce to a Power Purchaser 
that is not designated as part of Network Load under the Network Integration Transmission 
Service but not including a sale of energy through the PJM Interchange Energy Market 
established under the PJM Operating Agreement. 
 
Tie Line: 
 
“Tie Line” shall mean a circuit connecting two balancing authority areas, Control Areas or fully 
metered electric system regions. Tie Lines may be classified as external or internal as set forth in 
the PJM Manuals. 
 
Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer:   
 
“Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer” shall mean the applicable offer used to calculate lost 
opportunity cost credits.  For pool-scheduled resources specified in PJM Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 3.2.3(f-1), and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 3.2.3(f-1), the Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer shall equal the Real-time Settlement 
Interval offer integrated under the applicable offer curve for the LOC Deviation, as determined by 
the greater of the Committed Offer or last Real-Time Offer submitted for the offer on which the 
resource was committed in the Day-ahead Energy Market for each hour in an Operating Day.  For 
all other pool-scheduled resources, the Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer shall equal the Real-
time Settlement Interval offer integrated under the applicable offer curve for the LOC Deviation, 
as determined by the offer curve associated with the greater of the Committed Offer or Final Offer 
for each hour in an Operating Day.   For self-scheduled generation resources, the Total Lost 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 2 
Opportunity Cost Offer shall equal the Real-time Settlement Interval offer integrated under the 
applicable offer curve for the LOC Deviation, where for self-scheduled generation resources (a) 
operating pursuant to a cost-based offer, the applicable offer curve shall be the greater of the 
originally submitted cost-based offer or the cost-based offer that the resource was dispatched on 
in real-time; or (b) operating pursuant to a market-based offer, the applicable offer curve shall be 
determined in accordance with the following process: (1) select the greater of the cost-based day-
ahead offer and updated cost-based Real-time Offer; (2) for resources with multiple cost-based 
offers, first, for each cost-based offer select the greater of the day-ahead offer and updated Real-
time Offer, and then select the lesser of the resulting cost-based offers; and (3) compare the offer 
selected in (1), or for resources with multiple cost-based offers the offer selected in (2), with the 
market-based day-ahead offer and the market-based Real-time Offer and select the highest offer. 
 
Total Net Obligation: 
  
“Total Net Obligation” shall mean all unpaid billed Net Obligations plus any unbilled Net 
Obligation incurred to date, as determined by PJMSettlement on a daily basis, plus any other 
Obligations owed to PJMSettlement at the time. 
 
Total Net Sell Position: 
 
“Total Net Sell Position” shall mean all unpaid billed Net Sell Positions plus any unbilled Net 
Sell Positions accrued to date, as determined by PJMSettlement on a daily basis. 
 
Total Operating Reserve Offer:   
 
“Total Operating Reserve Offer” shall mean the applicable offer used to calculate Operating 
Reserve credits.  The Total Operating Reserve Offer shall equal the sum of all individual Real-
time Settlement Interval energy offers, inclusive of Start-Up Costs (shut-down costs for Demand 
Resources) and No-load Costs, for every Real-time Settlement Interval in a Segment, integrated 
under the applicable offer curve up to the applicable megawatt output as further described in the 
PJM Manuals.  The applicable offer used to calculate day-ahead Operating Reserve credits shall 
be the Committed Offer, and the applicable offer used to calculate balancing Operating Reserve 
credits shall be lesser of the Committed Offer or Final Offer for each hour in an Operating Day. 
 
Trade Reference:  
 
“Trade Reference” shall mean a reference from a contact or firm that had or has a material 
business relationship with a Participant. 
 
Transmission Congestion Charge: 
 
“Transmission Congestion Charge” shall mean a charge attributable to the increased cost of 
energy delivered at a given load bus when the transmission system serving that load bus is 
operating under constrained conditions, or as necessary to provide energy for third-party 
transmission losses which shall be calculated and allocated as specified in Operating Agreement, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 3 
Schedule 1, section 5.1 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
5.1. 
 
Transmission Congestion Credit: 
 
“Transmission Congestion Credit” shall mean the allocated share of total Transmission 
Congestion Charges credited to each FTR Holder, calculated and allocated as specified in 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 5.2. 
 
Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor: 
 
“Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor” shall mean the maximum cost of the re-dispatch 
incurred to control the flows across a transmission constraint and establishes the maximum limit 
on the Marginal Value. 
 
Transmission Customer: 
 
“Transmission Customer” shall mean any Eligible Customer (or its Designated Agent) that (i) 
executes a Service Agreement, or (ii) requests in writing that the Transmission Provider file with 
the Commission a proposed unexecuted Service Agreement, to receive transmission service 
under Tariff, Part II.  This term is used in Tariff, Part I and Tariff, Part VI to include customers 
receiving transmission service under Tariff, Part II and Tariff, Part III. 
 
Where used in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix and the parallel provisions of Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, Transmission Customer shall mean an entity using Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service. 
 
Transmission Facilities: 
 
“Transmission Facilities” shall have the meaning set forth in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Transmission Facility Rating: 
 
“Transmission Facility Rating” shall mean the maximum transfer capability, or the maximum or 
minimum voltage, current, frequency, or real or reactive power flow, through a Transmission 
Facility that does not violate the applicable rating of relevant transmission equipment.  
Transmission Facility Ratings are computed in accordance with a written Transmission Facility 
Rating methodology and consistent with Good Utility Practice, considering the technical 
limitations on conductors and relevant transmission equipment (such as thermal flow limits).  
Relevant transmission equipment may include, but is not limited to, circuit breakers, line traps, 
and transformers.  Transmission Facility Ratings also encompass AARs, AAR Exceptions, and 
Temporary Conditional Transmission Facility Ratings. 
 
 
Transmission Forced Outage: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 4 
 
“Transmission Forced Outage” shall mean an immediate removal from service of a transmission 
facility by reason of an Emergency or threatened Emergency, unanticipated failure, or other 
cause beyond the control of the owner or operator of the transmission facility, as specified in the 
relevant portions of the PJM Manuals.  A removal from service of a transmission facility at the 
request of the Office of the Interconnection to improve transmission capability shall not 
constitute a Forced Transmission Outage. 
 
Transmission Injection Rights: 
 
“Transmission Injection Rights” shall mean Capacity Transmission Injection Rights and Energy 
Transmission Injection Rights. 
 
Transmission Interconnection Customer: 
 
“Transmission Interconnection Customer” shall mean an entity that submits an Interconnection 
Request to interconnect or add Merchant Transmission Facilities to the Transmission System or 
to increase the capacity of Merchant Transmission Facilities interconnected with the 
Transmission System in the PJM Region or an entity that submits an Upgrade Request for 
Merchant Network Upgrades (including accelerating the construction of any transmission 
enhancement or expansion, other than Merchant Transmission Facilities, that is included in the 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan prepared pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6). 
 
Transmission Interconnection Facilities Study: 
 
“Transmission Interconnection Facilities Study” shall mean a Facilities Study related to a 
Transmission Interconnection Request. 
 
Transmission Interconnection Feasibility Study: 
 
“Transmission Interconnection Feasibility Study” shall mean a study conducted by the 
Transmission Provider in accordance with Tariff, Part IV, section 36.2. 
 
Transmission Interconnection Request: 
 
“Transmission Interconnection Request” shall mean a request by a Transmission Interconnection 
Customer pursuant to Tariff, Part IV to interconnect or add Merchant Transmission Facilities to 
the Transmission System or to increase the capacity of existing Merchant Transmission Facilities 
interconnected with the Transmission System in the PJM Region. 
 
Transmission Loading Relief: 
 
“Transmission Loading Relief” shall mean NERC’s procedures for preventing operating security 
limit violations, as implemented by PJM as the security coordinator responsible for maintaining 
transmission security for the PJM Region. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 5 
Transmission Loss Charge: 
 
“Transmission Loss Charge” shall mean the charges to each Market Participant, Network 
Customer, or Transmission Customer for the cost of energy lost in the transmission of electricity 
from a generation resource to load as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5, 
and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 5. 
 
Transmission Owner: 
 
“Transmission Owner” shall mean a Member that owns or leases with rights equivalent to 
ownership Transmission Facilities and is a signatory to the PJM Transmission Owners 
Agreement.  Taking transmission service shall not be sufficient to qualify a Member as a 
Transmission Owner. 
 
Transmission Owner Attachment Facilities: 
 
“Transmission Owner Attachment Facilities” shall mean that portion of the Transmission Owner 
Interconnection Facilities comprised of all Attachment Facilities on the Interconnected 
Transmission Owner’s side of the Point of Interconnection.  
 
Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities: 
 
“Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities” shall mean all Interconnection Facilities that 
are not Customer Interconnection Facilities and that, after the transfer under Tariff, Attachment 
P, Appendix 2, section 5.5 to the Interconnected Transmission Owner of title to any 
Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities that the Interconnection Customer constructed, 
are owned, controlled, operated and maintained by the Interconnected Transmission Owner on 
the Interconnected Transmission Owner’s side of the Point of Interconnection identified in 
appendices to the Interconnection Service Agreement and to the Interconnection Construction 
Service Agreement, including any modifications, additions or upgrades made to such facilities 
and equipment, that are necessary to physically and electrically interconnect the Customer 
Facility with the Transmission System or interconnected distribution facilities. 
 
Transmission Owner Upgrade:  
 
“Transmission Owner Upgrade” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating 
Agreement. 
 
Transmission Planned Outage: 
 
“Transmission Planned Outage” shall mean any transmission outage scheduled in advance for a 
pre-determined duration and which meets the notification requirements for such outages 
specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix or the PJM Manuals. 
 
Transmission Provider: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 6 
 
The “Transmission Provider” shall be the Office of the Interconnection for all purposes, provided 
that the Transmission Owners will have the responsibility for the following specified activities: 
 
(a) The Office of the Interconnection shall direct the operation and coordinate the 
maintenance of the Transmission System, except that the Transmission Owners will continue to 
direct the operation and maintenance of those transmission facilities that are not listed in the PJM 
Designated Facilities List contained in the PJM Manual on Transmission Operations; 
 
(b) Each Transmission Owner shall physically operate and maintain all of the facilities that it 
owns; and 
 
(c) When studies conducted by the Office of the Interconnection indicate that enhancements 
or modifications to the Transmission System are necessary, the Transmission Owners shall have 
the responsibility, in accordance with the applicable terms of the Tariff, Operating Agreement 
and/or the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement to construct, own, and finance the 
needed facilities or enhancements or modifications to facilities. 
 
Transmission Provider’s Monthly Transmission System Peak: 
 
“Transmission Provider’s Monthly Transmission System Peak” shall mean the maximum firm 
usage of the Transmission Provider’s Transmission System in a calendar month. 
 
Transmission Service: 
 
“Transmission Service” shall mean Point-To-Point Transmission Service provided under Tariff, 
Part II on a firm and non-firm basis. 
 
Transmission Service Request: 
 
“Transmission Service Request” shall mean a request for Firm Point-To-Point Transmission 
Service or a request for Network Integration Transmission Service. 
 
Transmission System: 
 
“Transmission System” shall mean the facilities controlled or operated by the Transmission 
Provider within the PJM Region that are used to provide transmission service under Tariff, Part 
II and Part III. 
 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights: 
 
“Transmission Withdrawal Rights” shall mean Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights and Non-
Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights. 
 
Turn Down Ratio: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 7 
“Turn Down Ratio” shall mean the ratio of a generating unit’s economic maximum megawatts to 
its economic minimum megawatts. 
 
Unconstrained LDA Group: 
 
“Unconstrained LDA Group” shall mean a combined group of LDAs that form an electrically 
contiguous area and for which a separate Variable Resource Requirement Curve has not been 
established under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.10.  Any LDA for which a separate Variable 
Resource Requirement Curve has not been established under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 
5.10 shall be combined with all other such LDAs that form an electrically contiguous area. 
 
Unforced Capacity: 
 
“Unforced Capacity” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Unsecured Credit: 
  
“Unsecured Credit” shall mean any credit granted by PJMSettlement to a Participant that is not 
secured by Collateral. 
 
Unsecured Credit Allowance: 
  
“Unsecured Credit Allowance” shall mean Unsecured Credit extended by PJMSettlement in an 
amount determined by PJMSettlement’s evaluation of the creditworthiness of a Participant.  This 
is also defined as the amount of credit that a Participant qualifies for based on the strength of its 
own financial condition without having to provide Collateral.  See also: “Working Credit Limit.” 
 
Updated VRR Curve: 
 
“Updated VRR Curve” shall mean the Variable Resource Requirement Curve for use in the Base 
Residual Auction of the relevant Delivery Year, updated to reflect any change in the Reliability 
Requirement from the Base Residual Auction to such Incremental Auction, and for Delivery 
Years through May 31, 2018, the Short-term Resource Procurement Target applicable to the 
relevant Incremental Auction. 
 
Updated VRR Curve Decrement: 
 
“Updated VRR Curve Decrement” shall mean the portion of the Updated VRR Curve to the left 
of a vertical line at the level of Unforced Capacity on the x-axis of such curve equal to the net 
Unforced Capacity committed to the PJM Region as a result of all prior auctions conducted for 
such Delivery Year and adjusted, if applicable, by a change in Unforced Capacity commitments 
associated with the transition provision of Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14C, Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.14D (as related to the 2016/2017 Delivery Year), Tariff, Attachment 
DD, section 5.14E, and Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.5A(c)(i)(B), and RAA, Schedule 6, 
section L.9.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 8 
Updated VRR Curve Increment: 
 
“Updated VRR Curve Increment” shall mean the portion of the Updated VRR Curve to the right 
of a vertical line at the level of Unforced Capacity on the x-axis of such curve equal to the net 
Unforced Capacity committed to the PJM Region as a result of all prior auctions conducted for 
such Delivery Year and adjusted, if applicable, by a change in Unforced Capacity commitments 
associated with the transition provision of Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14C, Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.14D (as related to the 2016/2017 Delivery Year), Tariff, Attachment 
DD, section 5.14E and Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.5A(c)(i)(B), and RAA, Schedule 6, 
section L.9. 
 
Upgrade Construction Service Agreement: 
 
“Upgrade Construction Service Agreement” shall mean that agreement entered into by an 
Eligible Customer, Upgrade Customer or Interconnection Customer proposing Merchant 
Network Upgrades, a Transmission Owner, and the Transmission Provider, pursuant to Tariff, 
Part VI, Subpart B, and in the form set forth in Tariff, Attachment GG. 
 
Upgrade Customer: 
 
“Upgrade Customer” shall mean a customer that submits an Upgrade Request pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.8, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 7.8. 
 
Upgrade Feasibility Study: 
 
“Upgrade Feasibility Study” shall mean a study conducted by the Transmission Provider in 
accordance with Tariff, Part IV, section 36.3. 
 
Upgrade-Related Rights: 
 
“Upgrade-Related Rights” shall mean Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, Incremental 
Available Transfer Capability Revenue Rights, Incremental Deliverability Rights, and 
Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights. 
 
Upgrade Request: 
 
“Upgrade Request” shall mean a request submitted in the form prescribed in Tariff, Attachment 
EE, for evaluation by the Transmission Provider of the feasibility and estimated costs of (a) a 
Merchant Network Upgrade or (b) the Customer-Funded Upgrades that would be needed to 
provide Incremental Auction Revenue Rights specified in a request pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.8, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 7.8. 
 
Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transaction: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 9 
“Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transaction” shall mean an Up-to Congestion Transaction will 
be deemed an Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transaction if the following value is negative:  (a) 
when bidding, the lower of the bid price and the prior Up-to Congestion Historical Month’s 
average real-time value for the transaction; or (b) for cleared Virtual Transactions, the cleared 
day-ahead price of the Virtual Transactions. 
 
Up-to Congestion Historical Month: 
 
“Up-to Congestion Historical Month” shall mean a consistently-defined historical period 
nominally one month long that is as close to a calendar month as PJM determines is practical. 
 
Up-to Congestion Prevailing Flow Transaction: 
 
An Up-to Congestion Transaction shall mean an “Up-to Congestion Prevailing Flow 
Transaction” if it is not an Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transaction. 
 
Up-to Congestion Reference Price: 
 
“Up-to Congestion Reference Price” for an Up-to Congestion Transaction, shall be the specified 
percentile price differential between source and sink (defined as sink price minus source price) 
for real-time prices experienced over the prior Up-to Congestion Historical Month, averaged 
with the same percentile value calculated for the second prior Up-to Congestion Historical 
Month.  Up-to Congestion Reference Prices shall be calculated using the following historical 
percentiles: 
 For Up-to Congestion Prevailing Flow Transactions: 30 th percentile 
 For Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transactions when bid:  20 th percentile 
 For Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transactions when cleared:  5 th percentile 
 
Up-to Congestion Transaction: 
 
“Up-to Congestion Transaction” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 1.10.1A, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 1.10.1A. 
 
Variable Loads: 
“Variable Loads” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
1.5A.6, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.5A.6. 
 
Variable Resource Requirement Curve:  
 
“Variable Resource Requirement Curve” shall mean a series of maximum prices that can be 
cleared in a Base Residual Auction for Unforced Capacity, corresponding to a series of varying 
resource requirements based on varying installed reserve margins, as determined by the Office of 
the Interconnection for the PJM Region and for certain Locational Deliverability Areas in 
accordance with the methodology provided in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 10 
Virtual Credit Exposure:  
“Virtual Credit Exposure” shall mean the amount of potential credit exposure created by a 
market participant’s bid submitted into the Day-ahead market, as defined in Tariff, Attachment 
Q. 
 
Virtual Transaction: 
 
“Virtual Transaction” shall mean a Decrement Bid, Increment Offer and/or Up-to Congestion 
Transaction. 
 
Virtual Transaction Screening: 
  
“Virtual Transaction Screening” shall be the process of reviewing the Virtual Credit Exposure of 
submitted Virtual Transactions against the Credit Available for Virtual Transactions.  If the 
credit required is greater than credit available, then the Virtual Transactions will not be accepted. 
 
Virtual Transactions Net Activity: 
 
“Virtual Transactions Net Activity” shall mean the aggregate net total, resulting from Virtual 
Transactions, of (i) Spot Market Energy charges, (ii) Transmission Congestion Charges, and (iii) 
Transmission Loss Charges, calculated as set forth in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, and the 
parallel provisions of Operating Agreement, Schedule 1.  Virtual Transactions Net Activity may 
be positive or negative. 
 
Voltage Reduction Action: 
 
“Voltage Reduction Action” shall mean a notification during capacity deficient conditions in 
which PJM notifies Members to reduce voltage on the distribution system in order to reduce 
demand and therefore provide a sufficient amount of reserves, maintain tie flow schedules and 
preserve limited energy sources. 
 
Voltage Reduction Alert: 
 
“Voltage Reduction Alert” shall mean a notification from PJM to alert Members that a voltage 
reduction may be required during a future critical period. 
 
Voltage Reduction Warning: 
 
“Voltage Reduction Warning” shall mean a notification from PJM to warn Members that PJM’s 
available Synchronized Reserve is less than the Synchronized Reserve Requirement and that 
present operations have deteriorated such that a voltage reduction may be required. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – W – X – Y - Z 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 1 
Definitions – W – X – Y - Z 
 
Wholesale Transaction: 
 
As used in Tariff, Part IV, “Wholesale Transaction” shall mean any transaction involving the 
transmission or sale for resale of electricity in interstate commerce that utilizes any portion of the 
Transmission System. 
 
Winter-Period Capacity Performance Resource: 
 
“Winter-Period Capacity Performance Resource” shall have the same meaning specified in 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.5A. 
 
Working Credit Limit: 
  
“Working Credit Limit” shall mean an amount that is 75% of the Participant’s Unsecured Credit 
Allowance determined by PJMSettlement and/or 75% of the Collateral provided by the  
Participant to PJMSettlement.  A Participant’s Total Net Obligation should not exceed its 
Working Credit Limit. The calculation of Working Credit Limit shall take into account 
applicable reductions for Minimum Participation Requirements, FTR participation (for which 
there is no Unsecured Credit Allowance available), RPM participation, or other credit 
requirement determinants as defined in Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Working Credit Limit for Virtual Transactions: 
 
The “Working Credit Limit for Virtual Transactions” shall be calculated as 75% of the Market 
Participant’s Unsecured Credit Allowance and/or 75% of the Collateral provided by the Market 
Participant to PJMSettlement when the Market Participant is at or below its Peak Market 
Activity credit requirements as specified in Tariff, Attachment Q, section VII.A.  When the 
Market Participant has available Unsecured Credit Allowance and/or has provided Collateral in 
excess of its Peak Market Activity credit requirements, such additional Unsecured Credit 
Allowance and/or Financial Security shall not be discounted by 25% when calculating the 
Working Credit Limit for Virtual Transactions.  The Working Credit Limit for Virtual 
Transactions is a component in the calculation of Credit Available for Virtual Transactions.  The 
calculation of Working Credit Limit for Virtual Transactions shall take into account applicable 
reductions for Minimum Participation Requirements, FTR, or other credit requirement 
determinants as defined in Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Zonal Capacity Price: 
 
“Zonal Capacity Price” shall mean the clearing price required in each Zone to meet the demand 
for Unforced Capacity and satisfy Locational Deliverability Requirements for the LDA or LDAs 
associated with such Zone.  If the Zone contains multiple LDAs with different Capacity 
Resource Clearing Prices, the Zonal Capacity Price shall be a weighted average of the Capacity 
Resource Clearing Prices for such LDAs, weighted by the Unforced Capacity of Capacity 
Resources cleared in each such LDA. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – W – X – Y - Z 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 2 
 
Zone or Zonal: 
 
“Zone” or “Zonal” shall mean an area within the PJM Region, as set forth in Tariff, Attachment J 
and RAA, Schedule 15, or as such areas may be (i) combined as a result of mergers or 
acquisitions or (ii) added as a result of the expansion of the boundaries of the PJM Region.  A 
Zone shall include any Non-Zone Network Load located outside the PJM Region that is served 
from such Zone under Tariff, Attachment H-A. 
 
Zone Network Load: 
 
“Zone Network Load” shall mean Network Load that is located inside of the area comprised of 
the PJM Region.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
2 Initial Allocation and Renewal Procedures 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures --> OATT 2.1 Initial Allocation of Available Transfer Capability 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
2.1 Initial Allocation of Available Transfer Capability: 
 
For purposes of determining whether existing capability on the Transmission Provider’s 
Transmission System is adequate to accommodate a request for firm service under this Tariff, all 
Completed Applications for new firm transmission service received during the initial sixty (60) 
day period commencing with the effective date of the Tariff will be deemed to have been filed 
simultaneously.  A lottery system conducted by an independent party, which shall be the Office 
of the Interconnection, shall be used to assign priorities for Completed Applications filed 
simultaneously.  All Completed Applications for firm transmission service received after the 
initial sixty (60) day period shall be assigned a priority pursuant to Tariff, Part II, section 13.2. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures --> OATT 2.2 Reservation Priority For Existing Firm Service Cust 
Effective Date: 1/15/2024 - Docket #: ER24-402-001 - Page 1 
2.2 Reservation Priority For Existing Firm Cross-Border Network Integration 
Transmission Service and Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service: 
 
Per Tariff, Part I, section 2.5, the reservation priority in this section 2.2 does not apply to 
Regional Network Integration Transmission Service.  This section 2.2 establishes a transmission 
reservation priority for existing Firm Cross-Border Network Integration Transmission Service 
and Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service customers (referred to as “firm service customers” 
for purposes of this section 2.2 and Tariff, Part I, section 2.3). Such existing firm service 
customers of any Transmission Owner (wholesale requirements and transmission-only, with a 
contract term of five-years or more), have the right to continue to take transmission service from 
the Transmission Provider when the contract expires, rolls over or is renewed.  This transmission 
reservation priority is independent of whether the existing customer continues to purchase 
capacity and energy from the Transmission Owner or elects to purchase capacity and energy 
from another supplier.  If at the end of the contract term, the Transmission Provider’s 
Transmission System cannot accommodate all of the requests for transmission service the 
existing firm service customer must agree to accept a contract term at least equal to a competing 
request by any new Eligible Customer and to pay the current just and reasonable rate, as 
approved by the Commission, for such service, provided that, the firm service customer shall 
have a right of first refusal at the end of such service only if the new contract is for five years or 
more.  This transmission reservation priority for existing firm service customers is an ongoing 
right that may be exercised at the end of all firm contract terms of five years or longer.  Service 
Agreements subject to the right of first refusal entered into prior to June 16, 2008 or associated 
with a transmission service request received prior to July 13, 2007, unless terminated, will 
become subject to the five-year/one-year requirement on the first rollover date after June 16, 
2008; provided that, the one-year notice requirement shall apply to such service agreements with 
five years or more left in their terms as of June 16, 2008.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures --> OATT 2.3 Procedures For Exercising Transmission Reservation 
Effective Date: 1/15/2024 - Docket #: ER24-402-001 - Page 1 
2.3 Procedures For Exercising Transmission Reservation Priority Rights: 
 
(a) If, at any time, the Transmission Provider receives a request from an Eligible Customer 
for new firm transmission service that the Transmission Provider determines it could not provide 
without performing a System Impact Study if an existing customer were to exercise its 
transmission reservation priority pursuant to Tariff, Part I, section 2.2, the Transmission Provider 
shall promptly notify the existing customer of the new request.  Within thirty (30) days of such 
notification, the existing customer must inform the Transmission Provider whether it exercises 
its reservation priority pursuant to Tariff, Part I, section 2.2 and agrees to accept a contract term 
at least equal to the new request. In the event an existing customer does not exercise its 
reservation priority or fails to respond within thirty (30) days of such notification, the existing 
firm service customer (as defined above in Tariff, Part I, section 2.2) shall forfeit its reservation 
priority. 
 
(b) In the event an existing firm service customer (as defined above in Tariff, Part I, section 
2.2) does not receive a notification pursuant to section 2.3(a) above, then the existing firm 
service customer (as defined above in Tariff, Part I, section 2.2)must notify Transmission 
Provider no later than one year prior to the end of the term of its firm transmission contract that it 
is exercising its transmission reservation priority and will take transmission service for an 
additional term of five years or longer; otherwise it shall forfeit the transmission reservation 
priority associated with the contract. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures --> OATT 2.4 Reservation Priority For State Required Retail Acce 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
2.4 Reservation Priority For State Required Retail Access Program Load: 
 
When a retail customer’s power supply arrangements expire, roll-over, are renewed, or otherwise 
terminate, a Transmission Customer that will serve that retail power customer pursuant to a state 
required retail access program shall have the right to take transmission service from the 
Transmission Provider pursuant to the same priority accorded the Transmission Customer which 
previously served the retail customer.  This transmission reservation priority is independent of 
whether the retail customer continues to purchase capacity and energy from its then-existing 
supplier or purchases capacity and energy from another supplier. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures --> OATT 2.5 Term of Service for Regional NITS 
Effective Date: 1/15/2024 - Docket #: ER24-402-001 - Page 1 
2.5  Term of Service for Regional Network Integration Transmission Service  
 
A Network Customer that takes Regional Network Integration Transmission Service from the 
Transmission Provider takes such service on terms that do not expire. The provisions relating to 
reservation priority and rollover rights in Tariff, Part I, section 2.2 and Tariff, Part I, section 2.3, 
above, are inapplicable to such customers.  
 
Although Regional Network Integration Transmission Service is presumed to continue without 
expiration, it may be terminated where:  
 
1) An incumbent Network Customer will be replaced by a successor Network Customer, 
in which case the incumbent’s service shall only terminate if the successor agrees to 
commence the taking of the service, the appropriate service agreement is executed, 
and all other applicable terms and conditions of the PJM Governing Agreements are 
satisfied;  
2) An incumbent Network Customer seeks to terminate its service and no successor 
Network Customer exists, in which case the incumbent must provide PJM with forty-
two (42) months’ notice prior to the commencement of a Delivery Year, subject to 
receiving all necessary regulatory approvals for such termination, if any; or  
3) On such other date mutually agreed upon by the parties.  
 
Transmission Service Agreements in the form of Tariff, Attachment F, with terms that are related 
to Regional Network Integration Transmission Service, and which are in effect at the time this 
section 2.5 becomes effective shall be deemed to be revised to include terms set forth in this 
section 2.5. Such revisions shall be in the same manner and to the same extent as agreements 
entered after the effective date of this section 2.5 and the modifications to Tariff, Attachment F 
and Tariff, Attachment F-3. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3 Ancillary Services 
 
Ancillary Services are needed with transmission service to maintain reliability within and among 
the Control Areas affected by the transmission service.  The Transmission Provider is required to 
provide (or offer to arrange with the local Control Area operator as discussed below), and the 
Transmission Customer is required to purchase, the following Ancillary Services (i) Scheduling, 
System Control and Dispatch, and (ii) Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation or 
Other Sources. 
 
The Transmission Provider is required to offer to provide (or offer to arrange with the local 
Control Area operator as discussed below) the following Ancillary Services only to the 
Transmission Customer serving load within the Transmission Provider’s Control Area (i) 
Regulation and Frequency Response, (ii) Energy Imbalance, (iii) Operating Reserve -
Synchronized, and (iv) Operating Reserve - Supplemental.  Subject to the provisions of Tariff, 
Schedules 1 through 6, the Transmission Customer serving load within the Transmission 
Provider’s Control Area is required to acquire these Ancillary Services, whether from the 
Transmission Provider, from a third party, or by self-supply.  The Transmission Provider shall 
administer the purchases by Transmission Customers of these Ancillary Services.  
PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the Ancillary Services provided to the Transmission 
Customer; provided, however, that PJMSettlement shall not be the contracting party to bilateral 
transactions between market participants or with respect to a self-schedule or self-supply relating 
to Ancillary Services.  The Transmission Customer may not decline the Transmission Provider’s 
offer of Ancillary Services unless it demonstrates that it has acquired the Ancillary Services from 
another source.  The Transmission Customer must list in its Application which Ancillary 
Services it will purchase from the Transmission Provider.  A Transmission Customer that 
exceeds its firm reserved capacity at any Point of Receipt or Point of Delivery or an Eligible 
Customer that uses Transmission Service at a Point of Receipt or Point of Delivery that it has not 
reserved is required to pay for all of the Ancillary Services identified in this section that were 
provided by the Transmission Provider associated with the unreserved service.  The 
Transmission Customer or Eligible Customer will pay for Ancillary Services based on the 
amount of transmission service it used but did not reserve. 
 
If the Transmission Provider is a public utility providing transmission service but is not a Control 
Area operator, it may be unable to provide some or all of the Ancillary Services.  In this case, the 
Transmission Provider can fulfill its obligation to provide Ancillary Services by acting as the 
Transmission Customer’s agent to secure these Ancillary Services from the Control Area 
operator.  The Transmission Customer may elect to (i) have the Transmission Provider act as its 
agent, (ii) secure the Ancillary Services directly from the Control Area operator, or (iii) secure 
the Ancillary Services (discussed in Tariff, Schedule 3, Tariff, Schedule 4, Tariff, Schedule 5 
and Tariff, Schedule 6) from a third party or by self-supply when technically feasible.  The 
Transmission Provider shall specify the rate treatment and all related terms and conditions in the 
event of an unauthorized use of Ancillary Services by the Transmission Customer. 
 
The specific Ancillary Services, prices and/or compensation methods are described on the 
Schedules that are attached to and made a part of the Tariff.  Three principal requirements apply 
to discounts for Ancillary Service provided by the Transmission Provider in conjunction with its 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 2 
provision of transmission services as follows:  (1) any offer of a discount made by the 
Transmission Provider must be announced to all Eligible Customers solely by posting on the 
OASIS, (2) any customer-initiated requests for discounts (including requests for use by one’s 
wholesale merchant or an Affiliate’s use) must occur solely by posting on the OASIS, and (3) 
once a discount is negotiated, details must be immediately posted on the OASIS.  A discount 
agreed upon for an Ancillary Service must be offered for the same period to all Eligible 
Customers on the Transmission Provider’s system.  Tariff, Part I, sections 3.1 through 3.6 below 
list the six Ancillary Services. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.1 Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Services 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3.1 Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Services: 
 
The rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 1 and Tariff, Schedule 1A. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.2 Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3.2 Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation or Other Sources Service: 
 
The rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 2. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.3 Regulation and Frequency Response Service 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3.3 Regulation and Frequency Response Service: 
 
Where applicable the rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 3. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.4 Energy Imbalance Service 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3.4 Energy Imbalance Service: 
 
Where applicable the rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 4. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.5 Operating Reserve - Synchronized Reserve Service 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 