[PART IX-FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS - Part 11 of 14]

terms and conditions of the Tariff that may be negotiated pursuant to the Negotiated Contract 
Option shall not be affected by use of the Negotiated Contract Option except as and to the extent 
that they are modified by the parties’ agreement pursuant to such option.  All terms agreed upon 
pursuant to the Negotiated Contract Option shall be stated in full in this CSA, Schedule A.  
 
6.2 Option to Build. 
 
 6.2.1 Option.   
  
Developer Party shall have the option, (“Option to Build”), to design, procure, construct and 
install all or any portion of the Stand Alone Network Upgrades on the dates specified in this 
CSA, Appendix I.  Transmission Provider and Developer Party must agree as to what constitutes 
Stand Alone Network Upgrades in this CSA, Appendix III, Schedule C.  If the Transmission 
Provider and Developer Party disagree about whether a particular Network Upgrade is a Stand 
Alone Network Upgrade, the Transmission Provider must provide Developer Party a written 
technical explanation outlining why the Transmission Provider does not consider the Network 
Upgrade to be a Stand Alone Network Upgrade within 15 days of its determination.  
Transmission Provider and Developer Party must agree as to what constitutes Stand Alone 
Network Upgrades and identify such Stand Alone Network Upgrades in this CSA, Appendix III, 
Schedule C, section B.  Except for Stand Alone Network Upgrades, Developer Party shall have 
no right to construct Network Upgrades under this option.  Unless a Developer Party is subject to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 6 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
a Generation Interconnection Agreement, in order to exercise this Option to Build, Developer 
Party must provide Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner with written notice of its 
election to exercise the option no later than 30 days from the date Developer Party receives the 
results of the Facilities Study (or, if no Facilities Study was required, completion of the System 
Impact Study).  Developer Party may not elect Option to Build after such date.  Developer Party 
shall indicate its election to exercise the option in this CSA.  
 
 6.2.2 General Conditions Applicable to Option.   
 
In addition to the other terms and conditions applicable to the construction of facilities under this 
Appendix III, the Option to Build is subject to the following conditions: 
 
(a)  If Developer Party assumes responsibility for the design, procurement and 
construction of Stand Alone Network Upgrades: 
 
(i) Developer Party shall engineer, procure equipment, and construct Stand 
Alone Network Upgrades (or portions thereof) using Good Utility Practice and using standards 
and specifications provided in advance by Transmission Owner; 
 
(ii) Developer Party’s engineering, procurement and construction of Stand 
Alone Network Upgrades shall comply with all requirements of law to which Transmission 
Owner shall be subject in the engineering, procurement or construction of Stand Alone Network 
Upgrades; 
 
(iii) Transmission Owner shall review and approve engineering design, 
equipment acceptance tests, and the construction of Stand Alone Network Upgrades; 
 
(iv) Prior to commencement of construction, Developer Party shall provide to 
Transmission Owner a schedule for construction of Stand Alone Network Upgrades and shall 
promptly respond to requests for information from Transmission Owner; 
 
(v) At any time during construction, Transmission Owner shall have the right 
to gain unrestricted access to the Stand Alone Network Upgrades and to conduct inspections of 
the same; 
 
(vi) At any time during construction, should any phase of the engineering, 
equipment procurement, or construction of Stand Alone Network Upgrades not meet the 
standards and specifications provided by Transmission Owner, Developer Party shall be 
obligated to remedy deficiencies in that portion of the Stand Alone Network Upgrades; 
 
(vii) Developer Party shall indemnify Transmission Owner and Transmission 
Provider for claims arising from Developer Party’s construction of Network Upgrades that are 
Stand Alone Network Upgrades under the terms and procedures applicable to this CSA, 
Appendix III, sections 12.1 through 12.4; 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 6 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 3 
(viii) Developer Party shall transfer control of Network Upgrades that are Stand 
Alone Network Upgrades to Transmission Owner; 
 
(ix) Unless the Parties otherwise agree, Developer Party shall transfer 
ownership of Stand Alone Network Upgrades to Transmission Owner; 
 
(x) Transmission Owner shall approve and accept for operation and 
maintenance for Stand Alone Network Upgrades to the extent engineered, procured, and 
constructed in accordance with this CSA, Appendix III, section 3.2; 
 
(xi) Developer Party shall deliver to Transmission Owner “as-built” drawings, 
information, and any other documents that are reasonably required by Transmission Provider to 
assure that the Stand Alone Network Upgrades are built to the standards and specifications 
required by Transmission Owner; and 
 
  (xii) If Developer Party exercises the Option to Build, Developer Party shall 
pay Transmission Owner to execute the responsibilities enumerated to Transmission Owner 
under this section 6.2.2.  Transmission Owner shall invoice Developer Party for this total amount 
to be divided on a quarterly basis pursuant to this CSA, Appendix III, section 9.2. 
 
(b) Developer Party must obtain or arrange to obtain all necessary permits and 
authorizations for the construction and installation of the Stand Alone Network Upgrades that it 
is building, provided, however, that when Transmission Owner’s assistance is required, 
Transmission Owner shall assist Developer Party in obtaining such necessary permits or 
authorizations with efforts similar in nature and extent to those that Transmission Owner 
typically undertakes in acquiring permits and authorizations for construction of facilities on its 
own behalf; 
 
(c) Developer Party must obtain all necessary land rights for the construction and 
installation of the Stand Alone Network Upgrades that it is building, provided, however, that 
upon Developer Party’s reasonable request, Transmission Owner shall assist Developer Party in 
acquiring such land rights with efforts similar in nature and extent to those that Transmission 
Owner typically undertakes in acquiring land rights for construction of facilities on its own 
behalf;  
 
(d) Notwithstanding anything stated herein, each Transmission Owner shall have the 
exclusive right and obligation to perform the line attachments (tie-in work), and to calibrate 
remote terminal units and relay settings, required for the interconnection to such Transmission 
Owner’s existing facilities of any Stand Alone Network Upgrades that Developer Party builds; 
and 
 
(e) The Stand Alone Network Upgrades built by Developer Party shall be 
successfully inspected, tested and energized pursuant to this CSA, Appendix III, sections 19 and 
20. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 6 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 4 
 6.2.3  Additional Conditions Regarding Network Facilities.   
 
To the extent that Developer Party utilizes the Option to Build for design, procurement, 
construction and/or installation of Stand Alone Network Upgrades in existence or under 
construction by or on behalf of Transmission Owner on the date that Developer Party solicits 
bids under section 6.2.7 below, or Stand Alone Network Upgrades to be located on land or in 
right-of-way owned or controlled by Transmission Owner, and in addition to the other terms and 
conditions applicable to the design, procurement, construction and/or installation of facilities 
under this Appendix III, all work shall comply with the following further conditions: 
 
(i) All work performed by or on behalf of Developer Party shall be conducted by 
contractors, and using equipment manufacturers or vendors, that are listed on Transmission 
Owner’s List of Approved Contractors; 
 
(ii) Transmission Owner shall have full site control of, and reasonable access to, its 
property at all times for purposes of tagging or operation, maintenance, repair or construction of 
modifications to, its existing facilities and/or for performing all tie-ins of Network Upgrades 
built by or for Developer Party; and for acceptance testing of any equipment that will be owned 
and/or operated by Transmission Owner; 
 
(iii) Transmission Owner shall have the right to have a reasonable number of 
appropriate representatives present for all work done on its property/facilities or regarding the 
Stand Alone Network Upgrades, and the right to stop, or to order corrective measures with 
respect to, any such work that reasonably could be expected to have an adverse effect on 
reliability, safety or security of persons or of property of Transmission Owner or any portion of 
the Transmission System, provided that, unless circumstances do not reasonably permit such 
consultations, Transmission Owner shall consult with Developer Party and with Transmission 
Provider before directing that work be stopped or ordering any corrective measures; 
 
(iv) Developer Party and its contractors, employees and agents shall comply with 
Transmission Owner’s safety, security and work rules, environmental guidelines and training 
requirements applicable to the area(s) where construction activity is occurring and shall provide 
all reasonably required documentation to Transmission Owner, provided that Transmission 
Owner previously has provided its safety, security and work rules and training requirements 
applicable to work on its facilities to Transmission Provider and Developer Party within 20 
Business Days after a request therefore made by Developer Party following its receipt of the 
Facilities Study; 
 
(v) Developer Party shall be responsible for controlling the performance of its 
contractors, employees and agents; and  
 
(vi) All activities performed by or on behalf of Developer Party pursuant to its 
exercise of the Option to Build shall be subject to compliance with Applicable Laws and 
Regulations, including those governing union staffing and bargaining unit obligations, and 
Applicable Standards. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 6 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 5 
 
 6.2.4 Administration of Conditions.   
 
To the extent that a Transmission Owner exercises any discretion in the application of any of the 
conditions stated in sections 6.2.2 and 6.2.3 above, it shall apply each such condition in a manner 
that is reasonable and not unduly discriminatory and it shall not unreasonably withhold, 
condition, or delay any approval or authorization that Developer Party may require for the 
purpose of complying with any of those conditions. 
 
 6.2.5  Approved Contractors. 
 
(a) Each Transmission Owner shall develop and shall provide to Transmission 
Provider a List of Approved Contractors.  Each Transmission Owner shall include on its List of 
Approved Contractors no fewer than three contractors and no fewer than three manufacturers or 
vendors of major transmission-related equipment, unless a Transmission Owner demonstrates to 
Transmission Provider’s reasonable satisfaction that it is feasible only to include a lesser number 
of construction contractors, or manufacturers or vendors, on its List of Approved Contractors.  
Transmission Provider shall publish each Transmission Owner’s List of Approved Contractors in 
a PJM Manual and shall make such manual available on its internet website. 
 
(b) Upon request of a Developer Party, a Transmission Owner shall add to its List of 
Approved Contractors (1) any design or construction contractor regarding which Developer 
Party provides such information as Transmission Owner may reasonably require which 
demonstrates to Transmission Owner’s reasonable satisfaction that the candidate contractor is 
qualified to design, or to install and/or construct new facilities or upgrades or modifications to 
existing facilities on Transmission Owner’s transmission system, or (2) any manufacturer or 
vendor of major transmission-related equipment (e.g., high-voltage transformers, transmission 
line, circuit breakers) regarding which Developer Party provides such information as 
Transmission Owner may reasonably require which demonstrates to Transmission Owner’s 
reasonable satisfaction that the candidate entity’s major transmission-related equipment is 
acceptable for installation and use on Transmission Owner’s transmission system. No 
Transmission Owner shall unreasonably withhold, condition, or delay its acceptance of a 
contractor, manufacturer, or vendor proposed for addition to its List of Approved Contractors. 
 
 6.2.6 Construction by Multiple Developer Parties.  
 
In the event that there are multiple Developer Parties that wish to exercise an Option to Build 
with respect to facilities of the types described in section 6.2.3 above, the Transmission Provider 
shall determine how to allocate the construction responsibility among them unless they reach 
agreement among themselves on how to proceed. 
 
 6.2.7 Option Procedures.  
 
(a) Within 10 days after executing this CSA or directing that this CSA be filed, 
Developer Party shall solicit bids from one or more Approved Contractors named on 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 6 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 6 
Transmission Owner’s List of Approved Contractors to procure equipment for, and/or to design, 
construct and/or install, the Network Upgrades that Developer Party seeks to build under the 
Option to Build on terms (i) that will meet Developer Party’s proposed schedule; (ii) that, if 
Developer Party seeks to have an Approved Contractor construct or install  Stand Alone Network 
Upgrades, will satisfy all of the conditions on construction specified in sections 6.2.2 and 6.2.3 
above; and (iii) that will satisfy the obligations of a Constructing Entity (other than those relating 
to responsibility for the costs of facilities) under this CSA.   
 
(b) Any additional costs arising from the bidding process or from the final bid of the 
successful Approved Contractor shall be the sole responsibility of Developer Party.   
 
(c) Upon receipt of a qualifying bid acceptable to it, Developer Party shall contract 
with the Approved Contractor that submitted the qualifying bid.  Such contract shall meet the 
standards stated in subsection (a) above. 
 
(d) In the absence of a qualifying bid acceptable to Developer Party in response to its 
solicitation, the Transmission Owner(s) shall be responsible for the design, procurement, 
construction and installation of the Network Upgrades in accordance with the Standard Option 
described in section 6.2.1 above. 
 
 6.2.8 Developer Party Drawings.   
 
Developer Party shall submit to Transmission Owner and Transmission Provider initial 
drawings, certified by a professional engineer, of the Network Upgrades that Developer Party 
arranges to build under the Option to Build.   Transmission Owner and Transmission Provider 
shall review the drawings to assess the consistency of Developer Party’s design of the pertinent 
Network Upgrades with Applicable Standards and the Facilities Study.  After consulting with 
Transmission Owner, Transmission Provider shall provide comments on such drawings to 
Developer Party within 60 days after its receipt thereof, after which time any drawings not 
subject to comment shall be deemed to be approved.  All drawings provided hereunder shall be 
deemed to be Confidential Information. 
 
 6.2.9 Effect of Review.   
 
Transmission Owner's and Transmission Provider’s reviews of Developer Party's initial drawings 
of the Network Upgrades that Developer Party is building shall not be construed as confirming, 
endorsing or providing a warranty as to the fitness, safety, durability or reliability of such 
facilities or the design thereof.  At its sole cost and expense, Developer Party shall make such 
changes to the design of the pertinent Network Upgrades as may reasonably be required by 
Transmission Provider, in consultation with Transmission Owner, to ensure that the Network 
Upgrades that Developer Party is building meet Applicable Standards and conform with the 
Facilities Study. 
 
6.3 Revisions to Schedule and Scope of Work.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 6 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 7 
The Schedule of Work and Scope of Work shall be revised as required in accordance with 
Transmission Provider’s scope change process for projects set forth in the PJM Manuals, or 
otherwise by mutual agreement of the Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner, which 
agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 7 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
7.0 Suspension of Work upon Default 
 
Upon the occurrence of a Default by Developer Party, Transmission Provider or Transmission 
Owner may, by written notice to Developer Party, suspend further work associated with the 
Network Upgrades, identified in this CSA, Appendix I, Transmission Owner is responsible for 
constructing.  Such suspension shall not constitute a waiver of any termination rights under this 
CSA, section 14.0.  In the event of a suspension by Transmission Provider or Transmission 
Owner, Developer Party shall be responsible for the Costs incurred in connection with any 
suspension hereunder. 
 
7.1 Notification and Correction of Defects. 
 
 7.1.1 In the event that inspection and/or testing of any Network Upgrades, identified in 
this CSA, Appendix I, built by Transmission Owner identifies any defects or failures to comply 
with Applicable Standards in such Network Upgrades, then Transmission Owner shall take 
appropriate action to correct any such defects or failures within 20 days after it learns thereof.  If 
such a defect or failure cannot reasonably be corrected within such 20-day period, Transmission 
Owner shall commence the necessary correction within that time and shall thereafter diligently 
pursue it to completion.  Such acceptance does not modify and shall not limit the Project 
Developer’s indemnification obligations set forth in this CSA, Appendix III, section 6.2.2. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 8 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
8.0 Transmission Outages 
 
8.1 Outages; Coordination.   
 
Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner acknowledge and agree that certain outages of 
transmission facilities owned by Transmission Owner, as more specifically detailed in the Scope 
of Work, may be necessary in order to complete the process of constructing and installing the 
Network Upgrades identified in this CSA, Appendix I.  Transmission Provider and Transmission 
Owner further acknowledge and agree that any such outages shall be coordinated by and through 
Transmission Provider. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 9 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
9.0 Security, Billing and Payments 
 
The following provisions shall apply with respect to charges for the Costs of Transmission 
Owner for which Developer Party is responsible. 
 
9.1 Adjustments to Security.   
 
The Security provided by Developer Party at or before the Effective Date of this CSA shall be:  
(a) reduced as portions of the work on Network Upgrades, identified in this CSA, Appendix I, 
are completed; and/or (b) increased or decreased as required to reflect adjustments to Developer 
Party’s cost responsibility, to correspond with changes in the Scope of Work developed in 
accordance with Transmission Provider’s scope change process for projects set forth in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
9.2 Invoice.   
 
Transmission Owner shall provide Transmission Provider a quarterly statement of its scheduled 
expenditures during the next three months for, as applicable, the design, engineering and 
construction of, and/or for other charges related to, construction of the Network Upgrades 
identified in this CSA, Appendix I, or (b) in the event that Developer Party exercises the Option 
to Build, for Transmission Owner’s oversight costs (i.e. costs incurred by Transmission Owner 
when engaging in oversight activities to satisfy itself that Developer Party is complying with 
Transmission Owner’s standards and specifications for the construction of facilities) associated 
with Developer Party building Stand Alone Network Upgrades, including but not limited to 
Costs for tie-in work and Cancellation Costs.  Transmission Owner’s oversight costs shall be 
consistent with this CSA, Appendix III, section 6.2.2(a)(xii).  If Developer Party exercises the 
Option to Build, Developer Party shall pay Transmission Owner costs associated with its 
responsibilities pursuant to section 6.2.1 and in accordance with the amount agreed to by 
Transmission Owner and Developer Party pursuant to this CSA, Appendix III, section 
6.2.2(a)(xii).  Transmission Provider shall bill Developer Party, on behalf of Transmission 
Owner, for Transmission Owner’s expected costs during the subsequent three months.  
Developer Party shall pay each bill within 20 days after receipt thereof.  Upon receipt of each of 
Developer Party’s payments of such bills, Transmission Provider shall reimburse Transmission 
Owner.  Developer Party may request that Transmission Provider provide quarterly cost 
reconciliation.  Such a quarterly cost reconciliation will have a one-quarter lag, e.g., 
reconciliation of costs for the first calendar quarter of work will be provided at the start of the 
third calendar quarter of work, provided, however, that section 9.3 below shall govern the timing 
of the final cost reconciliation upon completion of the work. 
 
9.3 Final Invoice.  
 
Within 120 days after Transmission Owner completes construction and installation of the 
Network Upgrades under this CSA, Transmission Provider shall provide Developer Party with 
an accounting of, and the appropriate Party shall make any payment to the other that is necessary 
to resolve, any difference between: (a) Developer Party’s responsibility under the Tariff for the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 9 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
Costs of the Network Upgrades identified in this CSA, Appendix I; and (b) Developer Party’s 
previous aggregate payments to Transmission Provider for the Costs of the facilities identified in 
this CSA, Appendix I.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, Transmission Provider shall not 
be obligated to make any payment to Developer Party or Transmission Owner that the preceding 
sentence requires it to make unless and until Transmission Provider has received the payment 
that it is required to refund from the Party owing the payment. 
 
9.4 Disputes.   
 
In the event of a billing dispute among Transmission Provider, Transmission Owner, and 
Developer Party, Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner shall continue to perform their 
respective obligations pursuant to this CSA so long as: (a) Developer Party continues to make all 
payments not in dispute, and the Security held by Transmission Provider while the dispute is 
pending exceeds the amount in dispute; or (b) Developer Party pays to Transmission Provider, or 
into an independent escrow account established by Developer Party, the portion of the invoice in 
dispute, pending resolution of such dispute.  If Developer Party fails to meet any of these 
requirements, then Transmission Provider shall so inform the other Parties and Transmission 
Provider or Transmission Owner may provide notice to Developer Party of a Breach pursuant to 
this CSA, Appendix III, section 13. 
 
9.5 Interest.   
 
Interest on any unpaid, delinquent amounts shall be calculated in accordance with the 
methodology specified for interest on refunds in the FERC’s regulations at 18 C.F.R. § 
35.19a(a)(2)(iii) and shall apply from the due date of the bill to the date of payment. 
 
9.6 No Waiver.   
 
Payment of an invoice shall not relieve Developer Party from any other responsibilities or 
obligations it has under this CSA, nor shall such payment constitute a waiver of any claims 
arising hereunder. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 10 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
10.0 Assignment 
 
10.1 Assignment with Prior Consent.   
 
Subject to section 10.2 below, no Party shall assign its rights or delegate its duties, or any part of 
such rights or duties, under this CSA without the written consent of the other Parties, which 
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.  Any such assignment or 
delegation made without such written consent shall be null and void. 
 
In addition, Transmission Owner shall be entitled, subject to Applicable Laws and Regulations, 
to assign this CSA to any Affiliate or successor of Transmission Owner that owns and operates 
all or a substantial portion of such Transmission Owner’s transmission facilities. 
 
10.2 Assignment Without Prior Consent. 
 
 10.2.1 Assignment by Developer Party.   
 
Developer Party may assign this CSA without Transmission Owner’s or Transmission Provider’s 
prior consent to any Affiliate or person that purchases or otherwise acquires, directly or 
indirectly, all or substantially all of Developer Party’s assets provided that, prior to the effective 
date of any such assignment, the assignee shall demonstrate that, as of the effective date of the 
assignment, the assignee has the technical competence and financial ability to comply with the 
requirements of this CSA and assumes in a writing provided to Transmission Owner and 
Transmission Provider all rights, duties, and obligations of Developer Party arising under this 
CSA.  However, any assignment described herein shall not relieve or discharge Developer Party 
from any of its obligations hereunder absent the written consent of Transmission Owner, such 
consent not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. 
 
 10.2.2 Assignment by Transmission Owner.   
 
Transmission Owner shall be entitled, subject to Applicable Laws and Regulations, to assign this 
CSA to an Affiliate or successor that owns and operates all or a substantial portion of 
Transmission Owner’s transmission facilities. 
 
 10.2.3 Assignment to Lenders.   
 
Developer Party may, without the consent of Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner, 
assign this CSA to any Project Finance Entity(ies), provided that such assignment shall not alter 
or diminish Developer Party’s duties and obligations under this CSA.  If Developer Party 
provides Transmission Owner with notice of an assignment to any Project Finance Entity(ies) 
and identifies such Project Finance Entity(ies) as contacts for notice purposes pursuant to this 
CSA, section 5.0, Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner shall provide notice and 
reasonable opportunity for such entity(ies) to cure any Breach under this CSA in accordance with 
this CSA.  Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner shall, if requested by such lenders, 
provide such customary and reasonable documents, including consents to assignment, as may be 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 10 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
reasonably requested with respect to the assignment and status of this CSA, provided that such 
documents do not alter or diminish the rights of Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner 
under this CSA, except with respect to providing notice of Breach to a Project Finance Entity.  
Upon presentation of Transmission Provider’s and/or Transmission Owner’s invoice therefore, 
Developer Party shall pay Transmission Provider and/or Transmission Owner’s reasonable 
documented cost of providing such documents and certificates.  Any assignment described 
herein shall not relieve or discharge Developer Party from any of its obligations hereunder absent 
the written consent of Transmission Owner and Transmission Provider. 
 
10.3 Successors and Assigns.  
 
This CSA and all of its provisions are binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, Transmission 
Provider and Transmission Owner and their respective successors and permitted assigns. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 11 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
11.0 Insurance 
 
11.1 Required Coverages.   
 
Constructing Entity shall maintain, at its own expense, insurance as described in paragraphs A 
through E below.  All insurance shall be procured from insurance companies rated “A-,” VII or 
better by AM Best and authorized to do business in a State or States in which the Network 
Upgrades, identified in this CSA, Appendix I, will be located.  Failure to maintain required 
insurance shall be a Breach of this CSA. 
 
 A. Workers Compensation Insurance with statutory limits, as required by the State 
and/or jurisdiction in which the work is to be performed, and employer’s liability insurance with 
limits of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000). 
 
 B. Commercial General Liability Insurance and/or Excess Liability Insurance 
covering liability arising out of premises, operations, personal injury, advertising,  products and 
completed operations coverage, independent contractors coverage, liability assumed under an 
insured contract, coverage for pollution to the extent normally available and punitive damages to 
the extent allowable under applicable law, with limits of not less than one million dollars 
($1,000,000) per occurrence/one million dollars ($1,000,000) general aggregate/one million 
dollars ($1,000,000) each accident products and completed operations aggregate. 
 
 C. Business/Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance for coverage of owned and 
non-owned and hired vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers designed for travel on public roads, with a 
minimum, combined single limit of no less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) each accident 
for bodily injury, including death, and property damage. 
 
 D. Excess and/or Umbrella Liability Insurance with a limit of liability of twenty 
million dollars ($20,000,000) per occurrence. These limits apply in excess of the employer’s 
liability, commercial general liability and business/commercial automobile liability coverages 
described above.  This requirement can be met alone or via a combination of primary, excess 
and/or umbrella insurance. 
 
 E. Professional Liability, including Contractors Legal Liability, providing errors, 
omissions and/or malpractice coverage.  Coverage shall be provided for the Constructing 
Entity’s duties, responsibilities and performance outlined in this CSA, with limits of liability as 
follows: 
 
$10,000,000 each occurrence 
 
$10,000,000 aggregate 
 
An entity may meet the Professional Liability Insurance requirements by requiring third-party 
contractors, designers, or engineers, or other parties that are responsible for design and 
engineering work associated with the Network Upgrades, identified in this CSA, Appendix I, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 11 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
necessary for the transmission service to procure professional liability insurance in the amounts 
and upon the terms prescribed by this section, and providing evidence of such insurance to the 
other entity.  Such insurance shall be procured from companies rated “A-,” VII or better by AM 
Best and authorized to do business in a State or States in which the Network Upgrades, identified 
in this CSA, Appendix I, are located.  Nothing in this section relieves the entity from complying 
with the insurance requirements.  In the event that the policies of the designers, engineers, or 
other parties used to satisfy the entity’s insurance obligations under this section become invalid 
for any reason, including but not limited to: (i) the policy(ies) lapsing or otherwise terminating or 
expiring; (ii) the coverage limits of such policy(ies) are decreased; or (iii) the policy(ies) do not 
comply with the terms and conditions of the PJM Tariff; entity shall be required to procure 
insurance sufficient to meet the requirements of this section, such that there is no lapse in 
insurance coverage.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event an entity will not design, 
engineer or construct or cause to design, engineer or construct any new Network Upgrades, 
Transmission Provider, in its discretion, may waive the requirement that an entity maintain the 
Professional Liability Insurance pursuant to this section. 
 
11.2 Additional Insureds.  
 
The Commercial General Liability, Business/Commercial Automobile Liability and Excess 
and/or Umbrella Liability policies procured by each Constructing Entity (“Insuring Constructing 
Entity”) shall include each other party (the “Insured Party”), its officers, agents and employees as 
additional insureds, providing all standard coverages and covering liability of the Insured Party 
arising out of bodily injury and/or property damage (including loss of use) in any way connected 
with the operations, performance, or lack of performance under this CSA. 
 
11.3 Other Required Terms.  
 
The above-mentioned insurance policies (except workers’ compensation) shall provide the 
following: 
 
 (a) Each policy shall contain provisions that specify that it is primary and non-
contributory for any liability arising out of that party’s negligence, and shall apply to such extent 
without consideration for other policies separately carried and shall state that each insured is 
provided coverage as though a separate policy had been issued to each, except the insurer’s 
liability shall not be increased beyond the amount for which the insurer would have been liable 
had only one insured been covered.  Each Insuring Constructing Entity shall be responsible for 
its respective deductibles or retentions. 
 
 (b) If any coverage is written on a Claims First Made Basis, continuous coverage 
shall be maintained or an extended discovery period will be exercised for a period of not less 
than two years after termination of this CSA. 
 
 (c) Provide for a waiver of all rights of subrogation which the Insuring Constructing 
Entity’s insurance carrier might exercise against the Insured Party. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 11 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 3 
11.4 No Limitation of Liability.   
 
The requirements contained herein as to the types and limits of all insurance to be maintained by 
the Constructing Entities are not intended to and shall not in any manner, limit or qualify the 
liabilities and obligations assumed by the Parties under this CSA. 
 
11.5 Self-Insurance.   
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Constructing Entity may self-insure to meet the minimum 
insurance requirements of this section to the extent it maintains a self-insurance program; 
provided that such Constructing Entity’s senior secured debt is rated at investment grade or 
better by Standard & Poor’s and its self-insurance program meets the minimum insurance 
requirements of this section 11.0.  For any period of time that a Constructing Entity’s senior 
secured debt is unrated by Standard & Poor’s or is rated at less than investment grade by 
Standard & Poor’s, such senior secured debt shall comply with the insurance requirements 
applicable to it under this section 11.0.  In the event that a Constructing Entity is permitted to 
self-insure pursuant to this section, it shall notify the other Parties that it meets the requirements 
to self-insure and that its self-insurance program meets the minimum insurance requirements in a 
manner consistent with that specified in section 11.6 below. 
 
11.6 Notices; Certificates of Insurance.   
 
Prior to the commencement of work pursuant to this CSA, the Constructing Entities agree to 
furnish certificate(s) of insurance evidencing the insurance coverage obtained in accordance with 
this section 11.0.  All certificates of insurance shall indicate that the certificate holder is included 
as an additional insured under the Commercial General Liability, Business/Commercial 
Automobile Liability and Excess and/or Umbrella Liability coverages, and that this insurance is 
primary with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the other Interconnected Entities.  All policies 
of insurance shall provide for 30 days prior written notice of cancellation or material adverse 
change.  If the policies of insurance do not or cannot be endorsed to provide 30 days prior 
written notice of cancellation or material adverse change, each Constructing Entity shall provide 
the other Constructing Entities with 30 days prior written notice of cancellation or material 
adverse change to any of the insurance required in this CSA. 
 
11.7 Subcontractor Insurance.   
 
In accord with Good Utility Practice, each Constructing Entity shall require each of its 
subcontractors to maintain and provide evidence of insurance coverage of types, and in amounts, 
commensurate with the risks associated with the services provided by the subcontractor.  
Bonding of contractors or subcontractors shall be at the hiring Constructing Entity’s discretion, 
but regardless of bonding, Transmission Owner shall be responsible for the performance or non-
performance of any contractor or subcontractor it hires. 
 
11.8 Reporting Incidents.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 11 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 4 
The Parties shall report to each other in writing as soon as practical all accidents or occurrences 
resulting in injuries to any person, including death, and any property damage arising out of this 
CSA. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 12 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
12.0 Indemnity 
 
12.1 Indemnity.   
 
Each Constructing Entity shall indemnify and hold harmless the other Parties, and the other 
Parties’ officers, shareholders, stakeholders, members, managers, representatives, directors, 
agents and employees, and Affiliates, from and against any and all loss, liability, damage, cost or 
expense to third parties, including damage and liability for bodily injury to or death of persons, 
or damage to property of persons (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses, litigation 
costs, consultant fees, investigation fees, sums paid in settlements of claims, penalties or fines 
imposed under Applicable Laws and Regulations, and any such fees and expenses incurred in 
enforcing this indemnity or collecting any sums due hereunder) (collectively, “Loss”) to the 
extent arising out of, in connection with or resulting from:  (i) the indemnifying Constructing 
Entity’s breach of any of the representations or warranties made in, or failure of the 
indemnifying Constructing Entity or any of its subcontractors to perform any of its obligations 
under, this CSA; or (ii) the negligence or willful misconduct of the indemnifying Constructing 
Entity or its contractors; provided, however, that the neither Constructing Entity shall not have 
any indemnification obligations under this section in respect of any Loss to the extent the Loss 
results from the negligence or willful misconduct of the Party seeking indemnity. 
 
12.2 Indemnity Procedures.   
 
Promptly after receipt by a person entitled to indemnity (“Indemnified Person”) of any claim or 
notice of the commencement of any action or administrative or legal proceeding or investigation 
as to which the indemnity provided for in this section 12.0 may apply, the Indemnified Person 
shall notify the indemnifying Constructing Entity of such fact.  Any failure of or delay in such 
notification shall not affect a Constructing Entity’s indemnification obligation unless such failure 
or delay is materially prejudicial to the indemnifying Constructing Entity.  The Indemnified 
Person shall cooperate with the indemnifying Constructing Entity with respect to the matter for 
which indemnification is claimed.  The indemnifying Constructing Entity shall have the right to 
assume the defense thereof with counsel designated by such indemnifying Constructing Entity 
and reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person.  If the defendants in any such action 
include one or more Indemnified Persons and the indemnifying Constructing Entity and if the 
Indemnified Person reasonably concludes that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or 
other Indemnified Persons which are different from or additional to those available to the 
indemnifying Constructing Entity, the Indemnified Person shall have the right to select separate 
counsel to assert such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on 
its own behalf.  In such instances, the indemnifying Constructing Entity shall only be required to 
pay the fees and expenses of one additional attorney to represent an Indemnified Person or 
Indemnified Persons having such differing or additional legal defenses.  The Indemnified Person 
shall be entitled, at its expense, to participate in any action, suit or proceeding, the defense of 
which has been assumed by the indemnifying Constructing Entity.  Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, the indemnifying Constructing Entity shall not:  (i) be entitled to assume and control 
the defense of any such action, suit or proceedings if and to the extent that, in the opinion of the 
Indemnified Person and its counsel, such action, suit or proceeding involves the potential 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 12 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
imposition of criminal liability on the Indemnified Person, or there exists a conflict or adversity 
of interest between the Indemnified Person and the indemnifying Constructing Entity, in such 
event the indemnifying Constructing Entity shall pay the reasonable expenses of the Indemnified 
Person; and (ii) settle or consent to the entry of any judgment in any action, suit or proceeding 
without the consent of the Indemnified Person, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, 
conditioned or delayed. 
 
12.3 Indemnified Person.   
 
If an Indemnified Person is entitled to indemnification under this section 12.0 as a result of a 
claim by a third party, and the indemnifying Constructing Entity fails, after notice and reasonable 
opportunity to proceed under this section 12.0, to assume the defense of such claim, such 
Indemnified Person may at the expense of the indemnifying Constructing Entity contest, settle or 
consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, or pay in full, such claim. 
 
12.4 Amount Owing.   
 
If the indemnifying Constructing Entity is obligated to indemnify and hold any Indemnified 
Person harmless under this section 12.0, the amount owing to the Indemnified Person shall be the 
amount of such Indemnified Person’s actual Loss, net of any insurance or other recovery. 
 
12.5 Limitation on Damages.   
 
Except as otherwise provided in this section 12.0, the liability of a Party shall be limited to direct 
actual damages, and all other damages at law are waived.  Under no circumstances shall any 
Party or its Affiliates, directors, officers, employees and agents, or any of them, be liable to 
another Party, whether in tort, contract or other basis in law or equity for any special, indirect, 
punitive, exemplary or consequential damages, including lost profits.  The limitations on 
damages specified in this section 12.5 are without regard to the cause or causes related thereto, 
including the negligence of any Party, whether such negligence be sole, joint or concurrent, or 
active or passive.  This limitation on damages shall not affect any Party’s rights to obtain 
equitable relief as otherwise provided in this CSA.  The provisions of this section 12.0 shall 
survive the termination or expiration of this CSA. 
 
12.6 Limitation of Liability in Event of Breach.   
 
A Breaching Party shall have no liability hereunder to any other Party, and each other Party 
hereby releases the Breaching Party, for all claims or damages it incurs that are associated with 
any interruption in the availability of the Network Upgrades identified in this CSA, Appendix I, 
the Transmission System, or Transmission Service, or associated with damage to the Network 
Upgrades identified in this CSA, Appendix I, except to the extent such interruption or damage is 
caused by the Breaching Party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of its 
obligations under this CSA. 
 
12.7 Limited Liability in Emergency Conditions.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 12 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 3 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the PJM Tariff or the Operating Agreement, no Party shall be 
liable to any other Party for any action that it takes in responding to an Emergency Condition, so 
long as such action is made in good faith, is consistent with Good Utility Practice and is not 
contrary to the directives of Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner with respect to such 
Emergency Condition.  Notwithstanding the above, Developer Party shall be liable in the event 
that it fails to comply with any instructions of Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner 
related to an Emergency Condition. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 13 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
13.0 Breach, Cure and Default  
 
13.1 Breach.   
 
A Breach of this CSA shall include: 
 
 (a) The failure to pay any amount when due; 
 
 (b) The failure to comply with any material term or condition of this Appendix III or 
of the other portions of the CSA or any attachments or Schedule hereto, including but not limited 
to any material breach of a representation, warranty or covenant (other than in subsections (a) 
and (c)-(e) of this section) made in this Appendix III; 
 
 (c) Assignment of the CSA in a manner inconsistent with its terms; 
 
 (d) Failure of an Interconnection Party to provide access rights, or an Interconnection 
Party's attempt to revoke or terminate access rights, that are provided under this Appendix III; or 
 
 (e) Failure of an Interconnection Party to provide information or data required to be 
determined under this Appendix III to another Interconnection Party for such other 
Interconnection Party to satisfy its obligations under this Appendix III. 
 
13.2 Continued Operation.   
 
In the event of a Breach or Default by either Interconnected Entity, and subject to termination of 
this CSA under this CSA, Appendix III, section 14.0, the Interconnected Entities shall continue 
to operate and maintain, as applicable, such DC power systems, protection and Metering 
Equipment, telemetering equipment, SCADA equipment, transformers, Secondary Systems, 
communications equipment, building facilities, software, documentation, structural components, 
and other facilities and appurtenances that are reasonably necessary for Transmission Provider 
and Transmission Owner to operate and maintain the Transmission System and the Transmission 
Owner Upgrades and for Developer Party to operate and maintain the Generating Facility or 
Merchant Transmission Facility and the Developer Party Interconnection Facilities, in a safe and 
reliable manner. 
 
13.3 Notice of Breach.   
 
An Interconnection Party not in Breach shall give written notice of an event of Breach to the 
Breaching Party, to Transmission Provider and to other persons that the Breaching Party 
identifies in writing to the other Interconnection Party in advance.  Such notice shall set forth, in 
reasonable detail, the nature of the Breach, and where known and applicable, the steps necessary 
to cure such Breach.  In the event of a Breach by Developer Party, Transmission Provider or 
Transmission Owner agree to provide notice of such Breach and in the same manner as its notice 
to Developer Party, to any Project Finance Entity provided that the Developer Party has provided 
the notifying Interconnection Party with notice of an assignment to such Project Finance 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 13 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
Entity(ies) and identifies such Project Finance Entity(ies) as contacts for notice purposes 
pursuant to this CSA, Appendix III, section 5.0. 
 
13.4 Cure and Default.   
 
An Interconnection Party that commits a Breach and does not take steps to cure the Breach 
pursuant to this section 13.4 is automatically in Default of this CSA, and its project and this CSA 
shall be deemed terminated and withdrawn.  Transmission Provider shall take all necessary steps 
to effectuate this termination, including submitting the necessary filings with FERC. 
 
 13.4.1 Cure of Breach.   
 
  13.4.1.1  
Except for the event of Breach set forth in section 13.1(a) above, the Breaching Interconnection 
Party (a) may cure the Breach within 30 days of the time the Non-Breaching Party sends such 
notice; or (b) if the Breach cannot be cured within 30 days, may commence in good faith all 
steps that are reasonable and appropriate to cure the Breach within such 30 day time period and 
thereafter diligently pursue such action to completion pursuant to a plan to cure, which shall be 
developed and agreed to in writing by the Interconnection Parties.  Such agreement shall not be 
unreasonably withheld.   
 
  13.4.1.2  
 
In an event of Breach set forth in section 13.1(a) above, the Breaching Interconnection Party 
shall cure the Breach within five days from the receipt of notice of the Breach.  If the Breaching 
Interconnection Party is Developer Party, and Developer Party fails to pay an amount due within 
five days from the receipt of notice of the Breach, Transmission Provider may use Security to 
cure such Breach.  If Transmission Provider uses Security to cure such Breach, Developer Party 
shall be in automatic Default and its project and this CSA shall be deemed terminated and 
withdrawn. 
 
13.5 Right to Compel Performance.   
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the occurrence of a Default, a non-Defaulting 
Interconnection Party shall be entitled to exercise such other rights and remedies as it may have 
in equity or at law.  Subject to the Generation Interconnection Agreement, Appendix II, section 
20.1, a Network Upgrade Cost Responsibility Agreement, Appendix II, section 11.1 or a 
Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, Appendix 2, section 10.1, no remedy conferred by 
any provision of this Appendix III is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy and each and 
every remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder 
or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute or otherwise.  The election of any 
one or more remedies shall not constitute a waiver of the right to pursue other available 
remedies. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 14 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
14.0 Termination 
 
14.1 Termination. 
 
 14.1.1 Upon Completion of Construction.   
 
  14.1.1.1 Conforming CSAs. 
 
If this CSA is conforming and, therefore, is only reported to FERC in PJM’s Electric Quarterly 
Report, this CSA shall terminate upon the date Transmission Provider receives written notice, in 
a form acceptable to Transmission Provider, from Transmission Owner that the following 
conditions have occurred: (i) completion of construction of all Transmission Owner Upgrades; 
(ii) if Developer Party exercised the Option to Build, transfer of title under this CSA, Appendix 
III, section 22.0; (iii) final payment of all Costs due and owing under this CSA; and (iv) if 
Developer Party exercised the Option to Build, delivery to Transmission Owner of final “as-
built” drawings of any Stand Alone Network Upgrades built by Developer Party in accordance 
with this CSA, Appendix III, section 6.2.2(a)(xi). 
 
  14.1.1.2 Non-Conforming CSAs. 
 
If this CSA is non-conforming and, therefore, has been filed with and accepted by FERC, this 
CSA shall terminate upon (a) Transmission Provider receiving written notice, in a form 
acceptable to Transmission Provider, from Transmission Owner that the following conditions 
have occurred: (i) completion of construction of all Transmission Owner Upgrades; (ii) if 
Developer Party exercised the Option to Build, transfer of title under this CSA, Appendix III, 
section 22.0; (iii) final payment of all Costs due and owing under this CSA; and (iv) if Developer 
Party exercised the Option to Build, delivery to Transmission Owner of final “as-built” drawings 
of any Stand Alone Network Upgrade built by Developer Party in accordance with this CSA, 
Appendix III, section 6.2.2(a)(xi); and (b) the effective date of Transmission Provider’s 
cancellation of this CSA in accordance with Commission rules and regulations.  Transmission 
Provider shall serve Transmission Owner and Developer Party with a copy of the notice of 
cancellation of any CSA in accordance with Commission rules and regulations. 
 
 14.1.2 Upon Default by Either Constructing Entity.   
 
Either Constructing Entity may terminate its obligations hereunder in the event of a Default by 
the other Constructing Entity as defined in this CSA, Appendix III, section 13.4.  Transmission 
Provider may terminate this CSA upon the Default of Developer Party of its obligations under 
this CSA or the applicable Generation Interconnection Agreement by providing Developer Party 
and Transmission Owner prior written notice of termination. 
 
 14.1.3 By Developer Party.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 14 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
Subject to its payment of Cancellation Costs as explained in section 14.2 below, Developer Party 
may be relieved of its obligations hereunder upon 60 days written notice to Transmission 
Provider and Transmission Owner. 
  
14.2 Cancellation by Developer Party. 
 
 14.2.1 Applicability.   
 
The following provisions shall survive and shall apply in the event that Developer Party 
terminates this CSA pursuant to this section 14.2. 
 
  14.2.1.1 Cancellation Cost Responsibility upon Termination.  
 
Upon the unilateral termination of this CSA by Developer Party, Developer Party shall be liable 
to pay to Transmission Owner or Transmission Provider all Cancellation Costs in connection 
with construction service for Developer Party pursuant to this CSA, including section 14.2.1.2 
below.  Cancellation costs may include costs for Network Upgrades assigned to Developer Party, 
in accordance with the Tariff and as reflected in this CSA, which remain the responsibility of 
Developer Party under the Tariff.  This shall include costs including, but not limited to, the costs 
for such Network Upgrades to the extent such cancellation would be a Material Modification, or 
would have an adverse effect or impose costs on other Developer Parties.  In the event 
Transmission Owner incurs Cancellation Costs, Transmission Owner shall provide Transmission 
Provider, with a copy to Developer Party, with a written demand for payment and with 
reasonable documentation of such Cancellation Costs.  Developer Party shall pay Transmission 
Provider each bill for Cancellation Costs within 30 days after, as applicable, Transmission 
Owner’s or Transmission Provider’s presentation to Developer Party of written demand therefor, 
provided that such demand includes reasonable documentation of the Cancellation Costs that the 
invoicing party seeks to collect.  Upon receipt of each of Developer Party’s payments of such 
bills of Transmission Owner, Transmission Provider shall reimburse Transmission Owner for 
Cancellation Costs incurred by Transmission Owner. 
 
  14.2.1.2 Disposition of Facilities upon Termination.   
 
Upon termination of this CSA by a Developer Party, Transmission Provider, after consulting 
with Transmission Owner, may, at the sole cost and expense of Developer Party, authorize 
Transmission Owner to (a) cancel supplier and contractor orders and agreements entered into by 
Transmission Owner to design, construct, install, operate, maintain and own the Transmission 
Owner Upgrades, provided, however, that Developer Party shall have the right to choose to take 
delivery of any equipment ordered by Transmission Owner for which Transmission Provider 
otherwise would authorize cancellation of the purchase order; or (b) remove any Transmission 
Owner Upgrades built by Transmission Owner or any Transmission Owner Stand Alone 
Network Upgrade (only after title to the subject facilities has been transferred to Transmission 
Owner) built by Developer Party; or (c) partially or entirely complete the Transmission Owner 
Upgrades as necessary to preserve the integrity or reliability of the Transmission System, 
provided that Developer Party shall be entitled to receive any rights associated with such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 14 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 3 
facilities and upgrades as determined in accordance with this CSA; or (d) undo any of the 
changes to the Transmission System that were made pursuant to this CSA.  To the extent that 
Developer Party has fully paid for equipment that is unused upon cancellation or which is 
removed pursuant to subsection (b) above, Developer Party shall have the right to take back title 
to such equipment; alternatively, in the event that Developer Party does not wish to take back 
title, Transmission Owner may elect to pay Developer Party a mutually agreed amount to acquire 
and own such equipment. 
 
 14.2.2 Termination upon Default. 
 
In the event that Developer Party exercises its right to terminate under section 14.1.2 above, and 
notwithstanding any other provision of this CSA, Developer Party shall be liable for payment of 
Transmission Owner’s Costs incurred up to the date of Developer Party’s notice of termination 
pursuant to section 14.1.2 above and the costs of completion of some or all of the Transmission 
Owner Upgrades or specific unfinished portions thereof, and/or removal of any or all of such 
facilities which have been installed, to the extent that Transmission Provider determines such 
completion or removal to be required for Transmission Provider and/or Transmission Owner to 
perform their respective obligations under the GIP of the Tariff or this CSA, provided, however, 
that Developer Party’s payment of such costs shall be without prejudice to any remedies that 
otherwise may be available to it under this Appendix III for the Default of Transmission Owner.  
Developer Party will also be subject to Cancellation Cost responsibility provisions of section 
14.2.1.1 above. 
 
14.3 Survival of Rights.   
 
Termination of this CSA or the applicable Generation Interconnection Agreement shall not 
relieve any Interconnection Party of any of its liabilities and obligations arising under this CSA 
or the applicable Generation Interconnection Agreement (including this Appendix III) prior to 
the date on which termination becomes effective, and each Interconnection Party may take 
whatever judicial or administrative actions it deems desirable or necessary to enforce its rights 
hereunder.  Applicable provisions of this Appendix III will continue in effect after termination to 
the extent necessary to provide for final billings, billing adjustments, and the determination and 
enforcement of liability and indemnification obligations arising from events or acts that occurred 
while the CSA or the applicable Generation Interconnection Agreement was in effect.  
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 15 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
15.0 Force Majeure 
 
15.1 Notice.   
 
A Construction Party that is unable to carry out an obligation imposed on it by this Appendix III 
due to Force Majeure shall notify each other Construction Party in writing or by telephone within 
a reasonable time after the occurrence of the cause relied on. 
 
15.2 Duration of Force Majeure.   
 
A Construction Party shall not be considered to be in Default with respect to any obligation 
hereunder, other than the obligation to pay money when due, if prevented from fulfilling such 
obligation by Force Majeure.  A Construction Party unable to fulfill any obligation hereunder 
(other than an obligation to pay money when due) by reason of Force Majeure shall give notice 
and the full particulars of such Force Majeure to the other Construction Parties in writing as soon 
as reasonably possible after the occurrence of the cause relied upon.  Those notices shall 
specifically state full particulars of the Force Majeure, the time and date when the Force Majeure 
occurred, and when the Force Majeure is reasonably expected to cease.  Written notices given 
pursuant to this section shall be acknowledged in writing as soon as reasonably possible.  The 
Construction Party affected shall exercise Reasonable Efforts to remove such disability with 
reasonable dispatch, but shall not be required to accede or agree to any provision not satisfactory 
to it in order to settle and terminate a strike or other labor disturbance.  The Construction Party 
affected has a continuing notice obligation to the other Construction Parties, and must update the 
particulars of the original Force Majeure notice and subsequent notices, in writing, as the 
particulars change.  The affected Construction Party shall be excused from whatever 
performance is affected only for the duration of the Force Majeure and while the Construction 
Party exercises Reasonable Efforts to alleviate such situation.  As soon as the non-performing 
Construction Party is able to resume performance of its obligations excused because of the 
occurrence of Force Majeure, such Construction Party shall resume performance and give 
prompt written notice thereof to the other Construction Parties. 
 
15.3 Obligation to Make Payments.   
 
Any Construction Party's obligation to make payments for services shall not be suspended by 
Force Majeure. 
 
15.4 Definition of Force Majeure. 
 
For the purposes of this section 15.0, an event of Force Majeure shall mean shall mean any act of 
God, labor disturbance, act of the public enemy, war, insurrection, riot, fire, storm or flood, 
explosion, breakage or accident to machinery or equipment, any order, regulation, or restriction 
imposed by governmental, military, or lawfully established civilian authorities, or any other 
cause beyond a Construction Party’s control that, in any of the foregoing cases, by exercise of 
due diligence, such Construction Party could not reasonably have been expected to avoid, and 
which, by the exercise of due diligence, it has been unable to overcome.  Force Majeure does not 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 15 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
include (i) a failure of performance that is due to an affected Construction Party’s own 
negligence or intentional wrongdoing; (ii) any removable or remediable causes (other than 
settlement of a strike or labor dispute) which an affected Construction Party fails to remove or 
remedy within a reasonable time; or (iii) economic hardship of an affected Construction Party. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 16 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
16.0 Confidentiality   
 
Information is Confidential Information only if it is clearly designated or marked in writing as 
confidential on the face of the document, or, if the information is conveyed orally or by 
inspection, if the Party providing the information orally informs the other Party receiving the 
information that the information is confidential.  If requested by any Party, the disclosing Party 
shall provide in writing the basis for asserting that the information referred to in this section 
warrants confidential treatment, and the requesting Party may disclose such writing to an 
appropriate Governmental Authority.  Any Party shall be responsible for the costs associated 
with affording confidential treatment to its information. 
 
16.1 Term.   
 
During the term of this CSA, and for a period of three years after the termination of this CSA, 
except as otherwise provided in this section 16.0, each Party shall hold in confidence, and shall 
not disclose to any person, Confidential Information provided to it by any Party. 
 
16.2 Scope.   
 
Confidential Information shall not include information that the receiving Party can demonstrate:  
(i) is generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by the receiving Party; 
(ii) was in the lawful possession of the receiving Party on a non-confidential basis before 
receiving it from the disclosing Party; (iii) was supplied to the receiving Party without restriction 
by a third party, who, to the knowledge of the receiving Party, after due inquiry, was under no 
obligation to the disclosing Party to keep such information confidential; (iv) was independently 
developed by the receiving Party without reference to Confidential Information of the disclosing 
Party; (v) is, or becomes, publicly known, through no wrongful act or omission of the receiving 
Party or breach of this CSA; or (vi) is required, in accordance with section 16.7 below, to be 
disclosed to any Governmental Authority or is otherwise required to be disclosed by law or 
subpoena, or is necessary in any legal proceeding establishing rights and obligations under this 
CSA.  Information designated as Confidential Information shall no longer be deemed 
confidential if the Party that designated the information as confidential notifies the other Parties 
that it no longer is confidential. 
 
16.3 Release of Confidential Information.   
 
No Party shall disclose Confidential Information of another Party to any other person, except to 
its Affiliates (in accordance with FERC’s Standards of Conduct requirements), subcontractors, 
employees, consultants or to parties who may be or considering providing financing to or equity 
participation in Developer Party on a need-to-know basis in connection with this CSA, unless 
such person has first been advised of the confidentiality provisions of this section and has agreed 
to comply with such provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Party that provides 
Confidential Information of another Party to any person shall remain responsible for any release 
of Confidential Information in contravention of this section. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT IX Subpart J FORM OF 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICE AGREEMENT --> OATT Part IX.J CSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.J 
CSA Appx 3 Section 16 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
16.4 Rights.   
 
Each Party retains all rights, title, and interest in the Confidential Information that it discloses to 
any other Party.  A Party’s disclosure to another Party of Confidential Information shall not be 
deemed a waiver by any Party or any other person or entity of the right to protect the 
Confidential Information from public disclosure. 
 
16.5 No Warranties.   
 
By providing Confidential Information, no Party makes any warranties or representations as to 
its accuracy or completeness.  In addition, by supplying Confidential Information, no Party 
obligates itself to provide any particular information or Confidential Information to any other 
Party nor to enter into any further agreements or proceed with any other relationship or joint 
venture. 
 
16.6 Standard of Care.   
 
Each Party shall use at least the same standard of care to protect Confidential Information it 
receives as the Party uses to protect its own Confidential Information from unauthorized 