[PART IX-FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS - Part 6 of 14]

is in advance of the study year used for the System Impact Studies, and CIRs are 
only interim until the study year. 
 
Consistent with the applicable terms of the Tariff, and subject to construction of 
any Network Upgrades required for reliability reasons as described in Schedule D 
of this WMPA, Wholesale Market Participant shall have Capacity Interconnection 
Rights at the Point of Interconnection specified in Schedule B of this WMPA in 
the amount of __ MW commencing _____ {e.g., June 1, 2023}.  From the 
effective date of this WMPA until _____ {e.g., May 31, 2023} (the “interim time 
period”), Wholesale Market Participant may be awarded interim Capacity 
Interconnection Rights in an amount not to exceed __ MW.  The availability and 
amount of such interim Capacity Interconnection Rights shall depend upon the 
completion and results of an interim deliverability study.  To the extent 
applicable, during the interim time period, PJM reserves the right to limit total 
injections of the Generating Facility consistent with the results of the interim 
deliverability study (which may be less than the Maximum Facility Output).  Any 
interim Capacity Interconnection Rights awarded during the interim time period 
shall terminate on _____ {e.g., May 31, 2023}.] 
 
2.1a To the extent that any portion of the Generating Facility is not a Capacity 
Resource with Capacity Interconnection Rights, such portion of the Generating 
Facility shall be an Energy Resource.  Pursuant to this WMPA, Wholesale Market 
Participant may sell energy into PJM’s markets in an amount equal to the 
Generating Facility’s Maximum Facility Output indicated in section 1.0c of these 
Specifications.  PJM reserves the right to limit injections in the event reliability 
would be affected by output greater than such quantity. 
 
{Instructions: This version of section 2.1 will be used in lieu of section 2.1 above when a 
Generating Facility will be an Energy Resource and therefore will not be granted CIRs.} 
 
[2.1] Energy Resource: The Generating Facility described in section 1.0 of these 
Specifications shall be an Energy Resource.  Pursuant to this WMPA, Wholesale 
Market Participant may sell energy into PJM’s markets in an amount equal to the 
Generating Facility’s Maximum Facility Output indicated in section 1.0c of these 
Specifications.  PJM reserves the right to limit injections in the event reliability 
would be affected by output greater than such quantity.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Specs 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
 
 3.0 Ownership and Location of Metering Equipment.  The metering equipment to be 
constructed, the capability of the metering equipment to be constructed, and the ownership 
thereof as required for Wholesale Market Participant to use the Generating Facility to engage in 
Wholesale Transactions in PJM’s markets shall be identified in Schedule B to this WMPA, and 
provided consistent with the PJM Manuals.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
APPENDICES: 
 
 APPENDIX 1 - DEFINITIONS 
 
 APPENDIX 2 - STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
 
SCHEDULES: 
 
 SCHEDULE A - SITE PLAN 
 
 SCHEDULE B - SINGLE-LINE DIAGRAM 
 
 SCHEDULE C - LIST OF METERING EQUIPMENT 
 
 SCHEDULE D - LIST OF NETWORK UPGRADES  
 
 SCHEDULE E - APPLICABLE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS AND 
STANDARDS 
 
 SCHEDULE F - SCHEDULE OF NON-STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 1 Definitions 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
APPENDIX 1 
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
 
From the Generation Interconnection Procedures accepted for filing by FERC as of the 
effective date of this agreement 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
APPENDIX 2 
 
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
 
1 Survival 
 
The Wholesale Market Participation Agreement shall continue in effect after termination to the 
extent necessary to provide for final billings and payments, and to permit the determination and 
enforcement of liability and indemnification obligations arising from acts or events that occurred 
while the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement was in effect. 
 
2 No Transmission Services  
 
The execution of a Wholesale Market Participation Agreement does not constitute a request for 
transmission service, or entitle Project Developer to receive transmission service, under Tariff, 
Part II or Tariff, Part III.  Nor does the execution of a Wholesale Market Participation Agreement 
obligate Transmission Owner or Transmission Provider to procure, supply, or deliver to Project 
Developer or the Generating Facility any energy, capacity, Ancillary Services, or Station Power 
(and any associated distribution services). 
 
3 Metering 
 
3.1 General:   
 
Metering shall be provided in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  All Metering Equipment shall 
be tested prior to any operation of the Generating Facility.  Power flows to and from the 
Generating Facility shall be compensated to the Point of Interconnection, or, upon the mutual 
agreement of Transmission Owner and Project Developer, to another location. 
 
3.2 Standards:   
 
All Metering Equipment installed pursuant to this Appendix 2 to be used for billing and 
payments shall be revenue quality Metering Equipment and shall satisfy applicable ANSI 
standards and Transmission Provider’s metering standards and requirements.  Nothing in this 
Appendix 2 precludes the use of Metering Equipment for any retail services of Transmission 
Owner provided, however, that in such circumstances Applicable Laws and Regulations shall 
control. 
 
3.3 Testing of Metering Equipment:   
 
The Interconnected Entity that owns the Metering Equipment shall operate, maintain, inspect, 
and test all Metering Equipment upon installation and at least once every two (2) years 
thereafter.  Upon reasonable request by the other Interconnected Entity, the owner of the 
Metering Equipment shall inspect or test the Metering Equipment more frequently than every 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
two years, but in no event more frequently than three times in any 24-month period.  The owner 
of the Metering Equipment shall give reasonable notice to the other Parties of the time when any 
inspection or test of the owner’s Metering Equipment shall take place, and the other Parties may 
have representatives present at the test or inspection.  If Metering Equipment is found to be 
inaccurate or defective, it shall be adjusted, repaired, or replaced in order to provide accurate 
metering.  Where Transmission Owner owns the Metering Equipment, the expense of such 
adjustment, repair, or replacement shall be borne by Project Developer, except that Project 
Developer shall not be responsible for such expenses where the inaccuracy or defect is caused by 
Transmission Owner.  If Metering Equipment fails to register, or if the measurement made by 
Metering Equipment during a test varies by more than 1 percent from the measurement made by 
the standard meter used in the test, the owner of the Metering Equipment shall inform 
Transmission Provider, and Transmission Provider shall inform the other Interconnected Entity, 
of the need to correct all measurements made by the inaccurate meter for the period during which 
the inaccurate measurements were made, if the period can be determined.  If the period of 
inaccurate measurement cannot be determined, the correction shall be for the period immediately 
preceding the test of the Metering Equipment that is equal to one-half of the time from the date 
of the last previous test of the Metering Equipment, provided that the period subject to correction 
shall not exceed nine months. 
 
3.4 Metering Data:   
 
At Project Developer’s expense, the metered data shall be telemetered (a) to a location 
designated by Transmission Provider; (b) to a location designated by Transmission Owner, 
unless Transmission Owner agrees otherwise; and (c) to a location designated by Project 
Developer.  Data from the Metering Equipment at the Point of Interconnection shall be used, 
under normal operating conditions, as the official measurement of the amount of energy 
delivered from the Generating Facility to the Point of Interconnection, provided that 
Transmission Provider’s rules applicable to Station Power as set forth at Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.7.10(d) shall control with respect to a Project Developer’s consumption of 
Station Power. 
 
3.5 Communications: 
 
3.5.1 Project Developer Obligations:   
 
Project Developer shall install and maintain satisfactory operating communications with 
Transmission Provider’s system dispatcher or its other designated representative, and with 
Transmission Owner.  Project Developer shall provide standard voice line, dedicated voice line, 
and electronic communications at its Generating Facility control room.  Project Developer also 
shall provide and maintain backup communication links with both Transmission Provider and 
Transmission Owner for use during abnormal conditions as specified by Transmission Provider 
and Transmission Owner, respectively.  Project Developer further shall provide the dedicated 
data circuit(s) necessary to provide Project Developer data to Transmission Provider and 
Transmission Owner as necessary to conform with Applicable Technical Requirements and 
Standards. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 3 
 
3.5.2 Remote Terminal Unit:  
 
Unless otherwise deemed unnecessary by Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner, prior 
to any operation of the Generating Facility, a remote terminal unit, or equivalent data collection 
and transfer equipment acceptable to the Parties, shall be installed by Project Developer, or by 
Transmission Owner at Project Developer's expense, to gather accumulated and instantaneous 
data to be telemetered to the location(s) designated by Transmission Provider and Transmission 
Owner through use of a dedicated point-to-point data circuit(s).  Instantaneous bi-directional real 
power and, with respect to the Generating Facility, reactive power flow information must be 
telemetered directly to the location(s) specified by Transmission Provider and Transmission 
Owner. 
 
3.5.3. Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs):  
 
A Project Developer that submitted a New Service Request on or after October 1, 2012 with a 
proposed new Generating Facility that has a Maximum Facility Output equal to or greater than 
100 MW shall install and maintain, at its expense, phasor measurement units (PMUs). PMUs 
shall be installed on the Generating Facility low side of the generator step-up transformer, unless 
it is a non-synchronous generation facility, in which case the PMUs shall be installed on the 
Generating Facility side of the Point of Interconnection. The PMUs must be capable of 
performing phasor measurements at a minimum of 30 samples per second which are 
synchronized via a high-accuracy satellite clock. To the extent Project Developer installs similar 
quality equipment, such as relays or digital fault recorders, that can collect data at least at the 
same rate as PMUs and which data is synchronized via a high-accuracy satellite clock, such 
equipment would satisfy this requirement. As provided for in the PJM Manuals, a Project 
Developer shall be required to install and maintain, at its expense, PMU equipment which 
includes the communication circuit capable of carrying the PMU data to a local data 
concentrator, and then transporting the information continuously to the Transmission Provider; 
as well as store the PMU data locally for 30 days. Project Developer shall provide to 
Transmission Provider all necessary and requested information through the Transmission 
Provider synchrophasor system, including the following: (a) gross MW and MVAR measured at 
the Generating Facility side of the generator step-up transformer (or, for a non-synchronous 
generation facility, to be measured at the Generating Facility side of the Point of 
Interconnection); (b) generator terminal voltage; (c) generator terminal frequency; and (d) 
generator field voltage and current, where available. The Transmission Provider will install and 
provide for the ongoing support and maintenance of the network communications linking the 
data concentrator to the Transmission Provider. Additional details regarding the requirements 
and guidelines of PMU data and telecommunication of such data are contained in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
4 Force Majeure  
 
4.1 Notice:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 4 
A Party that is unable to carry out an obligation imposed on it by this Appendix 2 due to Force 
Majeure shall notify the other Parties in writing or by telephone within a reasonable time after 
the occurrence of the cause relied upon. 
 
4.2 Duration of Force Majeure:   
 
A Party shall not be considered to be in Default with respect to any obligation hereunder, other 
than the obligation to pay money when due, if prevented from fulfilling such obligation by Force 
Majeure.  A Party unable to fulfill any obligation hereunder (other than an obligation to pay 
money when due) by reason of Force Majeure shall give notice and the full particulars of such 
Force Majeure to the other Parties in writing as soon as reasonably possible after the occurrence 
of the cause relied upon.  Those notices shall specifically state full particulars of the Force 
Majeure, the time and date when the Force Majeure occurred, and when the Force Majeure is 
reasonably expected to cease.  Written notices given pursuant to this Article shall be 
acknowledged in writing as soon as reasonably possible.  The Party affected shall exercise 
Reasonable Efforts to remove such disability with reasonable dispatch, but shall not be required 
to accede or agree to any provision not satisfactory to it in order to settle and terminate a strike or 
other labor disturbance.  The Party affected has a continuing notice obligation to the other 
Parties, and must update the particulars of the original Force Majeure notice and subsequent 
notices, in writing, as the particulars change.  The Party affected shall be excused from whatever 
performance is affected only for the duration of the Force Majeure and while the Party exercises 
Reasonable Efforts to alleviate such situation.  As soon as the non-performing Party is able to 
resume performance of its obligations excused because of the occurrence of Force Majeure, such 
Party shall resume performance and give prompt written notice thereof to the other Parties. 
 
4.3 Obligation to Make Payments:   
 
A Party’s obligation to make payments for services shall not be suspended by Force Majeure. 
 
4.4 Definition of Force Majeure: 
 
For the purposes of this section, Force Majeure shall mean any act of God, labor disturbance, act 
of the public enemy, war, insurrection, riot, fire, storm or flood, explosion, breakage or accident 
to machinery or equipment, any order, regulation, or restriction imposed by governmental, 
military, or lawfully established civilian authorities, or any other cause beyond a Party’s control 
that, in any of the foregoing cases, by exercise of due diligence, such Party could not reasonably 
have been expected to avoid, and which, by the exercise of due diligence, it has been unable to 
overcome.  Force majeure does not include (i) a failure of performance that is due to an affected 
Party’s own negligence or intentional wrongdoing; (ii) any removable or remediable causes 
(other than settlement of a strike or labor dispute) which an affected Party fails to remove or 
remedy within a reasonable time; or (iii) economic hardship of an affected Party. 
 
5 Indemnity 
 
5.1 Indemnity:   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 5 
 
Each Party shall indemnify and hold harmless the other Parties, and the other Parties’ officers, 
shareholders, stakeholders, members, managers, representatives, directors, agents, and 
employees, and Affiliates, from and against any and all loss, liability, damage, cost, or expense 
to third parties, including damage and liability for bodily injury to or death of persons, or damage 
to property or persons (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses, litigation costs, 
consultant fees, investigation fees, sums paid in settlements of claims, penalties or fines imposed 
under Applicable Laws and Regulations, and any such fees and expenses incurred in enforcing 
this indemnity or collecting any sums due hereunder) (collectively, “Loss”) to the extent arising 
out of, in connection with, or resulting from (i) the indemnifying Party’s breach of any of the 
representations or warranties made in, or failure of the indemnifying Party or any of its 
subcontractors to perform any of its obligations under, this Wholesale Market Participation 
Agreement (including Appendix 2), or (ii) the negligence or willful misconduct of the 
indemnifying Party or its contractors; provided, however, that no Party shall have any 
indemnification obligations under this section 5.1 in respect of any Loss to the extent the Loss 
results from the negligence or willful misconduct of the Party seeking indemnity. 
 
5.2 Indemnity Procedures:   
 
Promptly after receipt by a Person entitled to indemnity (“Indemnified Person”) of any claim or 
notice of the commencement of any action or administrative or legal proceeding or investigation 
as to which the indemnity provided for in section 5.1 may apply, the Indemnified Person shall 
notify the indemnifying Party of such fact.  Any failure of or delay in such notification shall not 
affect a Party’s indemnification obligation unless such failure or delay is materially prejudicial to 
the indemnifying Party.  The Indemnified Person shall cooperate with the indemnifying Party 
with respect to the matter for which indemnification is claimed.  The indemnifying Party shall 
have the right to assume the defense thereof with counsel designated by such indemnifying Party 
and reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person.  If the defendants in any such action 
include one or more Indemnified Persons and the indemnifying Party, and if the Indemnified 
Person reasonably concludes that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other 
Indemnified Persons which are different from or additional to those available to the 
indemnifying Party, the Indemnified Person shall have the right to select separate counsel to 
assert such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on its own 
behalf.  In such instances, the indemnifying Party shall only be required to pay the fees and 
expenses of one additional attorney to represent an Indemnified Person or Indemnified Persons 
having such differing or additional legal defenses.  The Indemnified Person shall be entitled, at 
its expense, to participate in any action, suit, or proceeding, the defense of which has been 
assumed by the indemnifying Party.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the indemnifying Party (i) 
shall not be entitled to assume and control the defense of any such action, suit, or proceedings if 
and to the extent that, in the opinion of the Indemnified Person and its counsel, such action, suit, 
or proceeding involves the potential imposition of criminal liability on the Indemnified Person, 
or there exists a conflict or adversity of interest between the Indemnified Person and the 
indemnifying Party, in such event the indemnifying Party shall pay the reasonable expenses of 
the Indemnified Person; and (ii) shall not settle or consent to the entry of any judgment in any 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 6 
action, suit, or proceeding without the consent of the Indemnified Person, which shall not be 
unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. 
 
5.3 Indemnified Person:   
 
If an Indemnified Person is entitled to indemnification under this section 5 as a result of a claim 
by a third party, and the indemnifying Party fails, after notice and reasonable opportunity to 
proceed under section 5.2 of this Appendix 2, to assume the defense of such claim, such 
Indemnified Person may at the expense of the indemnifying Party contest, settle, or consent to 
the entry of any judgment with respect to, or pay in full, such claim. 
 
5.4 Amount Owing:   
 
If an indemnifying Party is obligated to indemnify and hold any Indemnified Person harmless 
under this section 5, the amount owing to the Indemnified Person shall be the amount of such 
Indemnified Person’s actual Loss, net of any insurance or other recovery. 
 
5.5 Limitation on Damages:  
 
Except as otherwise provided in this section 5, the liability of a Party under this Appendix 2 shall 
be limited to direct actual damages, and all other damages at law are waived.  Under no 
circumstances shall any Party or its Affiliates, directors, officers, employees, and agents, or any 
of them, be liable to another Party, whether in tort, contract, or other basis in law or equity for 
any special, indirect, punitive, exemplary, or consequential damages, including lost profits.  The 
limitations on damages specified in this section 5.5 are without regard to the cause or causes 
related thereto, including the negligence of any Party, whether such negligence be sole, joint, or 
concurrent, or active or passive.  This limitation on damages shall not affect any Party’s rights to 
obtain equitable relief as otherwise provided in this Appendix 2.  The provisions of this section 
5.5 shall survive the termination or expiration of the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement. 
 
5.6 Limitation of Liability in Event of Breach:   
 
A breaching Party (“Breaching Party”) shall have no liability hereunder to the other Parties, and 
the other Parties hereby release the Breaching Party, for all claims or damages that either of them 
incurs that are associated with any interruption in the availability of the Generating Facility, 
Interconnection Facilities and Transmission Owner Upgrades, Transmission System, or 
Interconnection Service, or damages to a Party’s facilities, except to the extent such interruption 
or damage is caused by the Breaching Party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct in the 
performance of its obligations under this Wholesale Market Participation Agreement (including 
Appendix 2). 
 
5.7 Limited Liability in Emergency Conditions:   
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Tariff or Operating Agreement, no Party shall be liable to 
any other Party for any action that it takes in responding to an Emergency Condition, so long as 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 7 
such action is made in good faith, is consistent with Good Utility Practice, and is not contrary to 
the directives of Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner with respect to such Emergency 
Condition.  Notwithstanding the above, Project Developer shall be liable in the event that it fails 
to comply with any instructions of Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner related to an 
Emergency Condition. 
 
6 Breach, Cure, and Default 
 
6.1 Breach:   
 
A Breach of this Wholesale Market Participation Agreement shall include: 
 
 (a) The failure to pay any amount when due; 
 
 (b) The failure to comply with any material term or condition of this Appendix 2 or 
of the other portions of the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement or any attachments or 
Schedule hereto, including but not limited to any material breach of a representation, warranty, 
or covenant (other than in subsections (a), (c), and (d) of this section) made in this Appendix 2; 
 
 (c) Assignment of the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement in a manner 
inconsistent with its terms; 
 
 (d) Failure of a Party to provide information or data required to be determined under 
this Appendix 2 to another Party for such other Party to satisfy its obligations under this 
Appendix 2. 
 
6.2 Continued Operation:   
 
In the event of a Breach or Default by either Interconnected Entity, and subject to termination of 
the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement under section 7 of this Appendix 2, the 
Interconnected Entities shall continue to operate and maintain, as applicable, such DC power 
systems, protection and Metering Equipment, telemetering equipment, SCADA equipment, 
transformers, Secondary Systems, communications equipment, building facilities, software, 
documentation, structural components, and other facilities and appurtenances that are reasonably 
necessary for Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner to operate and maintain the 
Transmission System, and for Project Developer to operate and maintain the Generating Facility, 
in a safe and reliable manner. 
 
6.3 Notice of Breach:   
 
A Party not in Breach shall give written notice of an event of Breach to the Breaching Party, to 
Transmission Provider, and to other persons that the Breaching Party identifies in writing to the 
other Parties in advance.  Such notice shall set forth, in reasonable detail, the nature of the 
Breach, and where known and applicable, the steps necessary to cure such Breach.  In the event 
of a Breach by Project Developer, Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner agree to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 8 
provide notice of such Breach and in the same manner as its notice to Project Developer, to any 
Project Finance Entity provided that Project Developer has provided the notifying Party with 
notice of an assignment to such Project Finance Entity(ies) and identifies such Project Finance 
Entity(ies) as contacts for notice purposes pursuant to section 11 of this Appendix 2. 
 
6.4 Cure and Default:   
 
A Breaching Party that does not take steps to cure the Breach pursuant to this section 6.4 is 
automatically in Default of this Appendix 2 and of the Wholesale Market Participation 
Agreement, and this Wholesale Market Participation Agreement shall be deemed terminated.  
Transmission Provider shall take all necessary steps to effectuate this termination, including 
submitted the necessary filings with FERC. 
 
6.4.1 Cure of Breach:   
 
6.4.1.1 Except for the event of Breach set forth in section 6.1(a) above, the Breaching 
Party (a) may cure the Breach within 30 days of the time the Non-Breaching Party 
sends such notice; or (b) if the Breach cannot be cured within 30 days, may 
commence in good faith all steps that are reasonable and appropriate to cure the 
Breach within such 30 day time period and thereafter diligently pursue such 
action to completion pursuant to a plan to cure, which shall be developed and 
agreed to in writing by the Parties to this WMPA.  Such agreement shall not be 
unreasonably withheld.   
 
6.4.1.2 In an event of Breach set forth in section 6.1(a), the Breaching Interconnection 
shall cure the Breach within five days from the receipt of notice of the Breach.  If 
the Breaching Party is the Project Developer, and the Project Developer fails to 
pay an amount due within five days from the receipt of notice of the Breach, 
Transmission Provider may use Security to cure such Breach.  If Transmission 
Provider uses Security to cure such Breach, Project Developer shall be in 
automatic Default and its project and this Agreement shall be deemed terminated 
and withdrawn. 
 
6.5 Right to Compel Performance:   
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the occurrence of a Default, a non-Defaulting Party shall be 
entitled to exercise such other rights and remedies as it may have in equity or at law.  Subject to 
section 10.1 of this Appendix 2, no remedy conferred by any provision of this Appendix 2 is 
intended to be exclusive of any other remedy, and each and every remedy shall be cumulative 
and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at 
law or in equity or by statute or otherwise.  The election of any one or more remedies shall not 
constitute a waiver of the right to pursue other available remedies. 
 
7 Termination 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 9 
7.1 Termination of the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement:   
 
This Wholesale Market Participation Agreement may be terminated by the following means: 
 
7.1.1 By Mutual Consent:   
 
The Wholesale Market Participation Agreement may be terminated as of the date on which the 
Parties mutually agree. 
 
7.1.2 By Project Developer:   
 
Subject to its payment of Cancellation Costs, Project Developer may unilaterally terminate the 
Wholesale Market Participation Agreement pursuant to Applicable Laws and Regulations upon 
providing Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner sixty days prior written notice 
thereof. 
 
7.1.3 Upon Default of Project Developer:   
 
Transmission Provider may terminate the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement upon the 
Default of Project Developer of its obligations under the Wholesale Market Participation 
Agreement by providing Project Developer and Transmission Owner prior written notice of 
termination. 
 
7.1.4 Cancellation Cost Responsibility upon Termination: 
 
In the event of cancellation pursuant to section 7.1 of this Appendix 2, Project Developer shall be 
liable to pay to Transmission Owner or Transmission Provider all Cancellation Costs in 
connection with the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement.  Cancellation costs may include 
costs for Network Upgrades assigned to Project Developer, in accordance with the Tariff and as 
reflected in this Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, that remain the responsibility of 
Project Developer under the Tariff.  This shall include costs including, but not limited to, the 
costs for such Network Upgrades to the extent such cancellation would be a Material 
Modification, or would have an adverse effect or impose costs on other Project Developers in the 
Cycle.  In the event Transmission Owner incurs Cancellation Costs, it shall provide 
Transmission Provider, with a copy to Project Developer, with a written demand for payment 
and with reasonable documentation of such Cancellation Costs.  Project Developer shall pay 
Transmission Provider each invoice for Cancellation Costs within 30 days after, as applicable, 
Transmission Owner’s or Transmission Provider’s presentation to Project Developer of written 
demand therefor, provided that such demand includes reasonable documentation of the 
Cancellation Costs that the invoicing Party seeks to collect.  Upon receipt of each of Project 
Developer’s payments of such invoices of Transmission Owner, Transmission Provider shall 
reimburse Transmission Owner for Cancellation Costs incurred by the latter. 
 
7.2 FERC Approval:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 10 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Appendix 2, no termination hereunder shall become 
effective until the Interconnected Entities and/or Transmission Provider have complied with all 
Applicable Laws and Regulations applicable to such termination, including the filing with the 
FERC of a notice of termination of the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, and 
acceptance of such notice for filing by the FERC. 
 
7.3 Survival of Rights:  
 
Termination of this Wholesale Market Participation Agreement shall not relieve any Party of any 
of its liabilities and obligations arising under this Wholesale Market Participation Agreement 
(including Appendix 2) prior to the date on which termination becomes effective, and each Party 
may take whatever judicial or administrative actions it deems desirable or necessary to enforce 
its rights hereunder.  Applicable provisions of this Appendix 2 will continue in effect after 
termination to the extent necessary to provide for final billings, billing adjustments, and the 
determination and enforcement of liability and indemnification obligations arising from events or 
acts that occurred while the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement was in effect. 
 
8 Confidentiality   
 
Information is Confidential Information only if it is clearly designated or marked in writing as 
confidential on the face of the document, or, if the information is conveyed orally or by 
inspection, if the Party providing the information orally informs the Party receiving the 
information that the information is confidential.  If requested by any Party, the disclosing Party 
shall provide in writing the basis for asserting that the information referred to in this section 
warrants confidential treatment, and the requesting Party may disclose such writing to an 
appropriate Governmental Authority.  Any Party shall be responsible for the costs associated 
with affording confidential treatment to its information.   
 
8.1 Term:   
 
During the term of the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, and for a period of three 
years after the expiration or termination of the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, 
except as otherwise provided in this section 8, each Party shall hold in confidence, and shall not 
disclose to any person, Confidential Information provided to it by any other Party.  
 
8.2 Scope:   
 
Confidential Information shall not include information that the receiving Party can demonstrate: 
(i) is generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by the receiving Party; 
(ii) was in the lawful possession of the receiving Party on a non-confidential basis before 
receiving it from the disclosing Party; (iii) was supplied to the receiving Party without restriction 
by a third party, who, to the knowledge of the receiving Party, after due inquiry, was under no 
obligation to the disclosing Party to keep such information confidential; (iv) was independently 
developed by the receiving Party without reference to Confidential Information of the disclosing 
Party; (v) is, or becomes, publicly known, through no wrongful act or omission of the receiving 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 11 
Party or breach of this Appendix 2; or (vi) is required, in accordance with section 8.7 of this 
Appendix 2, to be disclosed to any Governmental Authority or is otherwise required to be 
disclosed by law or subpoena, or is necessary in any legal proceeding establishing rights and 
obligations under the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement.  Information designated as 
Confidential Information shall no longer be deemed confidential if the Party that designated the 
information as confidential notifies the other Parties that it no longer is confidential. 
 
8.3 Release of Confidential Information:   
 
No Party shall disclose Confidential Information to any other person, except to its Affiliates 
(limited by FERC’s Standards of Conduct requirements), subcontractors, employees, consultants, 
or to parties who may be or considering providing financing to or equity participation in Project 
Developer or to potential purchasers or assignees of Project Developer, on a need-to-know basis 
in connection with the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, unless such person has first 
been advised of the confidentiality provisions of this section 8 and has agreed to comply with 
such provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Party providing Confidential Information to 
any person shall remain primarily responsible for any release of Confidential Information in 
contravention of this section 8. 
 
8.4 Rights:   
 
Each Party retains all rights, title, and interest in the Confidential Information that it discloses to 
any other Party.  A Party’s disclosure to another Party of Confidential Information shall not be 
deemed a waiver by any Party or any other person or entity of the right to protect the 
Confidential Information from public disclosure. 
 
8.5 No Warranties:   
 
By providing Confidential Information, no Party makes any warranties or representations as to 
its accuracy or completeness.  In addition, by supplying Confidential Information, no Party 
obligates itself to provide any particular information or Confidential Information to any other 
Party nor to enter into any further agreements or proceed with any other relationship or joint 
venture. 
 
8.6 Standard of Care:   
 
Each Party shall use at least the same standard of care to protect Confidential Information it 
receives as the Party uses to protect its own Confidential Information from unauthorized 
disclosure, publication, or dissemination.  Each Party may use Confidential Information solely to 
fulfill its obligations to the other Parties under the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement or 
to comply with Applicable Laws and Regulations. 
 
8.7 Order of Disclosure:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 12 
If a Governmental Authority with the right, power, and apparent authority to do so requests or 
requires a Party, by subpoena, oral deposition, interrogatories, requests for production of 
documents, administrative order, or otherwise, to disclose Confidential Information, that Party 
shall provide the Party that provided the information with prompt prior notice of such request(s) 
or requirement(s) so that the providing Party may seek an appropriate protective order or waive 
compliance with the terms of this Appendix 2 or the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement.  
Notwithstanding the absence of a protective order or agreement, or waiver, the Party that is 
subjected to the request or order may disclose such Confidential Information which, in the 
opinion of its counsel, the Party is legally compelled to disclose.  Each Party shall use 
Reasonable Efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded any 
Confidential Information so furnished. 
 
8.8 Termination of Wholesale Market Participation Agreement:   
 
Upon termination of the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement for any reason, each Party 
shall, within 10 calendar days of receipt of a written request from another Party, use Reasonable 
Efforts to destroy, erase, or delete (with such destruction, erasure, and deletion certified in 
writing to the requesting Party) or to return to the other Party, without retaining copies thereof, 
any and all written or electronic Confidential Information received from the requesting Party. 
 
8.9 Remedies:   
 
The Parties agree that monetary damages would be inadequate to compensate a Party for another 
Party’s Breach of its obligations under this section 8.  Each Party accordingly agrees that the 
other Parties shall be entitled to equitable relief, by way of injunction or otherwise, if the first 
Party breaches or threatens to breach its obligations under this section 8, which equitable relief 
shall be granted without bond or proof of damages, and the receiving Party shall not plead in 
defense that there would be an adequate remedy at law.  Such remedy shall not be deemed to be 
an exclusive remedy for the breach of this section 8, but shall be in addition to all other remedies 
available at law or in equity.  The Parties further acknowledge and agree that the covenants 
contained herein are necessary for the protection of legitimate business interests and are 
reasonable in scope.  No Party, however, shall be liable for indirect, incidental or consequential, 
or punitive damages of any nature or kind resulting from or arising in connection with this 
section 8. 
 
8.10 Disclosure to FERC or its Staff:   
 
Notwithstanding anything in this section 8 to the contrary, and pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 1b.20, if 
FERC or its staff, during the course of an investigation or otherwise, requests information from 
one of the Parties that is otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to this 
Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, the Party shall provide the requested information to 
FERC or its staff within the time provided for in the request for information.  In providing the 
information to FERC or its staff, the Party must, consistent with 18 C.F.R. § 388.122, request 
that the information be treated as confidential and non-public by FERC and its staff and that the 
information be withheld from public disclosure.  Parties are prohibited from notifying the other 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 13 
Parties prior to the release of the Confidential Information to FERC or its staff.  A Party shall 
notify the other Parties to the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement when it is notified by 
FERC or its staff that a request to release Confidential Information has been received by FERC, 
at which time any of the Parties may respond before such information would be made public, 
pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 388.112. 
 
8.11 Non-Disclosure: 
 
Subject to the exception in section 8.10 of this Appendix 2, no Party shall disclose Confidential 
Information of another Party to any person not employed or retained by the Party, except to the 
extent disclosure is (i) required by law; (ii) reasonably deemed by the disclosing Party to be 
required in connection with a dispute between or among the Parties, or the defense of litigation 
or dispute; (iii) otherwise permitted by consent of the Party that provided such Confidential 
Information, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld; or (iv) necessary to fulfill its 
obligations under this Wholesale Market Participation Agreement or as a transmission service 
provider or a Control Area operator including disclosing the Confidential Information to an RTO 
or ISO or to a regional or national reliability organization.  Prior to any disclosures of another 
Party’s Confidential Information under this subparagraph, the disclosing Party shall promptly 
notify the other Parties in writing and shall assert confidentiality and cooperate with the other 
Parties in seeking to protect the Confidential Information from public disclosure by 
confidentiality agreement, protective order, or other reasonable measures.   
 
8.12 Information in the Public Domain: 
 
This provision shall not apply to any information that was or is hereafter in the public domain 
(except as a result of a Breach of this provision).   
 
8.13 Return or Destruction of Confidential Information:   
 
If a Party provides any Confidential Information to another Party in the course of an audit or 
inspection, the providing Party may request the other Party to return or destroy such Confidential 
Information after the termination of the audit period and the resolution of all matters relating to 
that audit.  Each Party shall make Reasonable Efforts to comply with any such requests for return 
or destruction within 10 days of receiving the request and shall certify in writing to the other 
Party that it has complied with such request. 
 
9 Information Access and Audit Rights 
 
9.1 Information Access:   
 
Consistent with Applicable Laws and Regulations, each Party shall make available such 
information and/or documents reasonably requested by another Party that are necessary to (i) 
verify the costs incurred by the other Party for which the requesting Party is responsible under 
this Appendix 2; and (ii) carry out obligations and responsibilities under this Appendix 2, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 14 
provided that the Parties shall not use such information for purposes other than those set forth in 
this section 9.1 and to enforce their rights under this Appendix 2. 
 
9.2 Reporting of Non-Force Majeure Events:   
 
Each Party shall notify the other Parties when it becomes aware of its inability to comply with 
the provisions of this Appendix 2 for a reason other than an event of Force Majeure as defined in 
section 4.4 of this Appendix 2.  The Parties agree to cooperate with each other and provide 
necessary information regarding such inability to comply, including, but not limited to, the date, 
duration, reason for the inability to comply, and corrective actions taken or planned to be taken 
with respect to such inability to comply.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, notification, 
cooperation, or information provided under this section shall not entitle the receiving Party to 
allege a cause of action for anticipatory breach of the Wholesale Market Participation 
Agreement. 
 
9.3 Audit Rights:   
 
Subject to the requirements of confidentiality under section 8 of this Appendix 2, each Party 
shall have the right, during normal business hours, and upon prior reasonable notice to the 
pertinent other Party, to audit at its own expense the other Party’s accounts and records 
pertaining to such Party’s performance and/or satisfaction of obligations arising under this 
Appendix 2.  Any audit authorized by this section shall be performed at the offices where such 
accounts and records are maintained and shall be limited to those portions of such accounts and 
records that relate to obligations under this Appendix 2.  Any request for audit shall be presented 
to the Party to be audited not later than 24 months after the event as to which the audit is sought.  
Each Party shall preserve all records held by it for the duration of the audit period.  Audit rights 
under this Appendix 2 do not extend to accounts and records pertaining to the non-FERC 
jurisdictional Interconnection Agreement. 
 
10 Disputes 
 
10.1 Submission:   
 
Any claim or dispute that any Party may have against another arising out of the Wholesale 
Market Participation Agreement may be submitted for resolution in accordance with the dispute 
resolution provisions of the Tariff. 
 
10.2 Rights Under the Federal Power Act:   
 
Nothing in this section shall restrict the rights of any Party to file a complaint with FERC under 
relevant provisions of the Federal Power Act. 
 
10.3 Equitable Remedies:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 15 
Nothing in this section shall prevent any Party from pursuing or seeking any equitable remedy 
available to it under Applicable Laws and Regulations. 
 
11 Notices 
 
11.1 General:   
 
Any notice, demand, or request required or permitted to be given by any Party to another, and 
any instrument required or permitted to be tendered or delivered by any Party in writing to 
another, shall be provided electronically or may be so given, tendered, or delivered by 
recognized national courier or by depositing the same with the United States Postal Service with 
postage prepaid for delivery by certified or registered mail addressed to the Party, or personally 
delivered to the Party, at the electronic or other address specified in the Wholesale Market 
Participation Agreement.  
 
11.2 Emergency Notices:   
 
Moreover, notwithstanding the foregoing, any notice hereunder concerning an Emergency 
Condition or other occurrence requiring prompt attention, or as necessary during day-to-day 
operations, may be made by telephone or in person, provided that such notice is confirmed in 
writing promptly thereafter.  Notice in an Emergency Condition, or as necessary during day-to-
day operations, shall be provided (i) if by Transmission Owner, to the shift supervisor at, as 
applicable, a Project Developer’s Generating Facility; and (ii) if by Project Developer, to the 
shift supervisor at Transmission Owner’s transmission control center. 
 
11.3 Operational Contacts:   
 
Each Party shall designate, and provide to each other Party, contact information concerning, a 
representative to be responsible for addressing and resolving operational issues as they arise 
during the term of the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement. 
 
12 Miscellaneous 
 
12.1 Regulatory Filing:   
 
In the event that this Wholesale Market Participation Agreement contains any terms that deviate 
materially from the form included in the Tariff, Transmission Provider shall file the Wholesale 
Market Participation Agreement on behalf of itself and Transmission Owner with FERC as a 
service schedule under the Tariff within 30 days after execution.  Project Developer may request 
that any information so provided be subject to the confidentiality provisions of section 8 of this 
Appendix 2.  Project Developer shall have the right, with respect to a Wholesale Market 
Participation Agreement tendered to it, to request  in writing (a) dispute resolution under Tariff, 
Part I, section 12, or consistent with Operating Agreement, Schedule 5; or (b) that Transmission 
Provider file the agreement unexecuted with FERC.  With the filing of any unexecuted 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 16 
Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, Transmission Provider may, in its discretion, 
propose to FERC a resolution of any or all of the issues in dispute between or among the Parties. 
 
12.2 Waiver:   
 
Any waiver at any time by a Party of its rights with respect to a Breach or Default under this 
Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, or with respect to any other matters arising in 
connection with this Appendix 2, shall not be deemed a waiver or continuing waiver with respect 
to any subsequent Breach or Default or other matter. 
 
12.3 Amendments and Rights Under the Federal Power Act:   
 
This Wholesale Market Participation Agreement may be amended or supplemented only by a 
written instrument duly executed by all Parties.  An amendment to the Wholesale Market 
Participation Agreement shall become effective and a part of this Wholesale Market Participation 
Agreement upon satisfaction of all Applicable Laws and Regulations.  Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, nothing contained in this Wholesale Market Participation Agreement shall be 
construed as affecting in any way any of the rights of any Party with respect to changes in 
applicable rates or charges under section 205 of the Federal Power Act and/or FERC’s rules and 
regulations thereunder, or any of the rights of any Party under section 206 of the Federal Power 
Act and/or FERC’s rules and regulations thereunder.  The terms and conditions of this Wholesale 
Market Participation Agreement and every appendix referred to therein shall be amended, as 
mutually agreed by the Parties, to comply with changes or alterations made necessary by a valid 
applicable order of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction hereof. 
 
12.4 Binding Effect:   
 
This Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, including this Appendix 2, and the rights and 
obligations thereunder shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the successors and 
assigns of the Parties. 
 
12.5 Regulatory Requirements:   
 
Each Party’s performance of any obligation under this Wholesale Market Participation 
Agreement for which such Party requires approval or authorization of any Governmental 
Authority shall be subject to its receipt of such required approval or authorization in the form and 
substance satisfactory to the receiving Party, or the Party making any required filings with, or 
providing notice to, such Governmental Authorities, and the expiration of any time period 
associated therewith.  Each Party shall in good faith seek, and shall use Reasonable Efforts to 
obtain, such required authorizations or approvals as soon as reasonably practicable.   
 
13 Representations and Warranties 
 
13.1 General:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendix 2 Standard Terms and 
Conditions 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 17 
Each Interconnected Entity hereby represents, warrants, and covenants as follows with these 
representations, warranties, and covenants effective as to the Interconnected Entity during the 
time the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement is effective: 
 
13.1.1 Good Standing:   
 
Such Interconnected Entity is duly organized or formed, as applicable, validly existing, and in 
good standing under the laws of its State of organization or formation, and is in good standing 
under the laws of the respective State(s) in which it is incorporated and operates as stated in the 
Wholesale Market Participation Agreement. 
 
13.1.2 Authority:   
 
Such Interconnected Entity has the right, power, and authority to enter into the Wholesale 
Market Participation Agreement, to become a party hereto, and to perform its obligations 
hereunder.  The Wholesale Market Participation Agreement is a legal, valid, and binding 
obligation of such Interconnected Entity, enforceable against such Interconnected Entity in 
accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable 
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, or other similar laws affecting creditors’ rights generally 
and by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforceability is sought in a 
proceeding in equity or at law). 
 
13.1.3 No Conflict:   
 
The execution, delivery, and performance of the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement 
does not violate or conflict with the organizational or formation documents, or bylaws or 
operating agreement, of the Interconnected Entity, or with any judgment, license, permit, order, 
material agreement, or instrument applicable to or binding upon the Interconnected Entity or any 
of its assets. 
 
13.1.4 Consent and Approval:   
 
Such Interconnected Entity has sought or obtained, or, in accordance with the Wholesale Market 
Participation Agreement will seek or obtain, each consent, approval, authorization, order, or 
acceptance by any Governmental Authority in connection with the execution, delivery, and 
performance of the Wholesale Market Participation Agreement and it will provide to any 
Governmental Authority notice of any actions under this Appendix 2 that are required by 
Applicable Laws and Regulations. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Schedules A-F 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE A 
 
SITE PLAN 
 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Schedules A-F 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
SCHEDULE B 
 
SINGLE-LINE DIAGRAM 
 
 
{If Municipality/Cooperative:  Make sure the point of common coupling is designated in the 
Single-Line Diagram in addition to the Point of Interconnection.} 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Schedules A-F 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
SCHEDULE C 
 
LIST OF METERING EQUIPMENT 
 
{Include the following language if not required:} 
 
Not Required. 
 
{If Municipality/Cooperative:  Make sure to account for the fact that metering may be installed 
at the point of common coupling.  For example: 
 
Wholesale Market Participant shall be responsible for the installation of metering and telemetry 
at the point of common coupling (as shown in Schedule B) between the Generating Facility and 
the [insert name of Municipality/Cooperative] system as required by PJM Manuals M-01 and 
M14D.  [Insert name of Municipality/Cooperative] and Wholesale Market Participant will 
together determine meter ownership.  
 
Wholesale Market Participant shall make its metering data at the point of common coupling 
available to [insert name of Municipality/Cooperative], or its affiliate, via telemetry for use by 
[insert name of Municipality/Cooperative] and Transmission Owner for balancing, settlement, 
and audit purposes.  Wholesale Market Participant may purchase and install its own backup 
metering.} 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Schedules A-F 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 4 
SCHEDULE D 
 
LIST OF NETWORK UPGRADES 
 
{Include the following language if not required:} 
 
Not Required. 
 
{Otherwise, list the Network Upgrades identified through the System Impact Studies, with Stand 
Alone Network Upgrades, if any, listed separately, and include the sentence below.} 
 
[List] 
 
Construction of these Network Upgrades listed in Schedule D of this WMPA is subject to the 
terms and conditions of a separate facilities construction agreement between Wholesale Market 
Participant and Transmission Owner. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Schedules A-F 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 5 
SCHEDULE E  
 
APPLICABLE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS 
 
{Include the following language if not required:} 
 
Not Required. 
 
{Otherwise, include the following language:} 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Interconnection Agreement, as applicable, the 
following technical requirements and standards shall apply.  To the extent that these Applicable 
Technical Requirements and Standards conflict with the terms and conditions of the Tariff or any 
other provision of this WMPA, the Tariff and/or this WMPA shall control. 
 
{Instructions: If the relevant TO Applicable Technical Requirements and Standards are posted 
on the PJM website, use the following language:} 
 
[Name of TO Standards] [version number (if known and applicable)] dated [insert effective date 
of the Standards] shall apply.  The [Name of TO Standards] [version number (if known and 
applicable)] dated [insert effective date of the Standards] is available on the PJM website.   
 
{Instructions. If the relevant TO Applicable Technical Requirements and Standards are not 
posted on the PJM website, use the following language, subject to modifications as appropriate:} 
 
[Name of TO Standards] [version number (if known and applicable)] dated [insert effective date 
of the Standards] shall apply.   
 
 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart C FORM OF 
WMPA --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.C WMPA Schedules A-F 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 6 
SCHEDULE F 
 
SCHEDULE OF NON-STANDARD TERMS & CONDITIONS 
 
 
{Include the following language if not required:} 
 
Not Required. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart D FORM OF 
ENGINEERING AND PROCUREMENT 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part IX, Subpart D 
 
FORM OF  
ENGINEERING AND PROCUREMENT AGREEMENT 
  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart D FORM OF 
ENGINEERING AND PROCUREMENT 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 2 
 
Service Agreement No. [    ] 
 
 
(Project Identifier #___) 
 
ENGINEERING AND PROCUREMENT  
AGREEMENT 
By and Among 
PJM INTERCONNECTION, L.L.C. 
And 
_______________________ 
And 
________________________ 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart D FORM OF 
ENGINEERING AND PROCUREMENT 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 3 
Service Agreement No. [    ] 
 
 
ENGINEERING AND PROCUREMENT  
AGREEMENT 
By and Among 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
And 
_______________________ 
And 
________________________ 
(Project Identifier #___) 
 
1.0 This Engineering and Procurement Agreement (“E&P Agreement”), including the 
Specifications attached hereto and incorporated herein, is entered into by and among PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. (“Transmission Provider” or “PJM”), [___________________] 
(“Project Developer” [OPTIONAL: or [“short name”]), and [___________________] 
(“Transmission Owner” [OPTIONAL: or [“short name”]).  Transmission Provider, 
Project Developer and Transmission Owner are individually, a “Party” and together, the 
“Parties” and collectively are “Parties”.  [Use as/when applicable: This E&P Agreement 
supersedes the  ____________________________________ {insert details to identify the 
agreement being superseded, such as whether it is an E&P Agreement or Generation 
Interconnection Agreement, the effective date of the agreement, the service agreement 
number designation, and the FERC docket number, if applicable, for the agreement being 
superseded.}]  For purposes of the Agreement, the terms “Generation Interconnection 
Procedures” or “GIP” will refer to the interconnection procedures set forth in 
{Instructions: use Tariff, Part VII if this is a transition period agreement, or use Tariff, 
Part VIII if this is a post-transition period agreement}.    
 
2.0 The location and a description of the Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission 
Facility that Project Developer proposes to interconnect to the Transmission Provider’s 
Transmission System is attached hereto. In the event that Project Developer will not own 
the facilities, Project Developer represents and warrants that it is authorized by the 
owners of such facilities to enter into this E&P Agreement and to represent such control.  
 
3.0 In order to advance the completion of its interconnection under the PJM Open Access 
Transmission Tariff (“Tariff”), Project Developer has requested an E&P Agreement and 
Transmission Provider has determined that Project Developer is eligible under the Tariff 
to obtain this E&P Agreement.  This E&P Agreement is not intended to be used for the 
actual construction of any Interconnection Facilities or Transmission Upgrades.   
 
4.0 (a) In accord with the GIP, Project Developer shall provide Transmission Provider 
(for the benefit of the Transmission Owner) with a letter of credit from an agreed 
provider or other form of security reasonably acceptable to Transmission Provider in the 
amount of $ _________, which amount equals the estimated costs, determined in 
accordance with the GIP, of the engineering and procurement activities described in 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart D FORM OF 
ENGINEERING AND PROCUREMENT 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 4 
section 2.0 of the Attached Specifications.  Should Project Developer fail to provide such 
security in the amount or form required, this E&P Agreement shall be terminated.  
Project Developer acknowledges (1) that it will be responsible for the actual costs of the 
facilities described in the Specifications, whether greater or lesser than the amount of the 
payment security provided under this section, and (2) that the payment security under this 
section does not include any additional amounts that it will owe in the event that it 
executes a final Generator Interconnection Agreement, as described in section 7.0(a) 
below.   
 
 (b)  Project Developer acknowledges (1) that the purpose of this E&P Agreement is to 
expedite, at Project Developer’s request, the engineering and procurement of certain 
long-lead items, as described in the Specifications, necessary for the establishment of the 
interconnection in order to advance the implementation of the Interconnection Request; 
and (2) that Transmission Provider’s Interconnection Studies related to such facilities 
have not been completed, but that the [identify completed System Impact or other 
study(ies)], dated [__________], that included Project Developer’s project sufficiently 
demonstrated, in Project Developer’s sole opinion, the necessity of facilities additions to 
the Transmission System to accommodate Project Developer’s project to warrant, in 
Project Developer’s sole judgment, its request that the Transmission Owner provide 
engineering and procurement for the equipment indicated in the Specifications for use in 
interconnecting Project Developer’s project with the Transmission System. 
 
5.0 This E&P Agreement shall be effective on the date it is executed by all Interconnection 
Parties and shall terminate upon the execution and delivery by Project Developer and 
Transmission Provider of the final Generator Interconnection Agreement described in 
section 7.0(a) below, or on such other date as mutually agreed upon by the parties, unless 
earlier terminated in accordance with the Tariff. 
 
6.0 In addition to the milestones stated in the GIP, during the term of this E&P Agreement, 
Project Developer shall ensure that its generation project meets each of the following 
development milestones:   
 
[SPECIFY MILESTONES] 
 
OR 
 
[NOT APPLICABLE FOR THIS E&P AGREEMENT]  
 
OR 
 
[MILESTONE REQUIREMENTS WILL BE SPECIFIED IN THE FURTHER 
GENERATOR INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENT DESCRIBED IN SECTION 
7.0(a)] 
 
7.0 (a) Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner agree to provide for the 
engineering and procurement of the facilities identified, and to the extent described, in 
section 2.0 of the Specifications in accordance with the GIP, as amended from time to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart D FORM OF 
ENGINEERING AND PROCUREMENT 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 5 
time, and this E&P Agreement.  The parties agree that (1) this E&P Agreement shall not 
provide for or authorize Interconnection Service or rights associated therewith for the 
Project Developer, and (2) Interconnection Service will commence only after Project 
Developer has entered into a final Generator Interconnection Agreement with 
Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner (or, alternatively, the Project 
Developer, Transmission Owner or Transmission Provider has exercised its right to 
initiate dispute resolution or to have the final Generator Interconnection Agreement filed 
with the FERC unexecuted) after completion of the System Impact Studies related to 
Project Developer’s Interconnection Request and otherwise in accordance with the Tariff.  
The final Generator Interconnection Agreement may further provide for construction of, 
and payment for, transmission facilities additional to those identified in the attached 
Specifications.  Should Project Developer fail to enter into such final Generator 
Interconnection Agreement (or, alternatively, to initiate dispute resolution or request in 
writing that the agreement be filed with the FERC unexecuted) within the time prescribed 
by the Tariff, Transmission Provider shall have the right, upon providing written notice to 
Project Developer, to terminate this E&P Agreement. 
 
 (b) In the event that Project Developer decides not to interconnect its proposed 
facilities, as described in section 1.0 of the Specifications to the Transmission System, it 
shall immediately give Transmission Provider written notice of its determination.  Project 
Developer shall be responsible for the Costs incurred pursuant to this E&P Agreement by 
Transmission Provider and/or by the Transmission Owner (1) on or before the date of 
such notice, and (2) after the date of such notice, if the costs could not reasonably be 
avoided despite, or were incurred by reason of, Project Developer’s determination not to 
interconnect.  Project Developer’s liability under the preceding sentence shall include all 
Cancellation Costs in connection with the engineering and procurement of the facilities 
described in section 2.0 of the Specifications. In the event the Transmission Owner incurs 
Cancellation Costs, it shall provide the Transmission Provider, with a copy to the Project 
Developer, with a written demand for payment and with reasonable documentation of 
such Cancellation Costs.  Within 60 days after the date of Project Developer’s notice, 
Transmission Provider shall provide an accounting of, and the appropriate party shall 
make any payment to the other that is necessary to resolve, any difference between (i) 
Project Developer's cost responsibility under this E&P Agreement and the Tariff for 
Costs, including Cancellation Costs, of the facilities described in section 2.0 of the 
Specifications and (ii) Project Developer's previous payments under this E&P 
Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, Transmission Provider shall not be 
obligated to make any payment that the preceding sentence requires it to make unless and 
until the Transmission Owner has returned to it the portion of Project Developer’s 
previous payments that Transmission Provider must pay under that sentence.  This E&P 
Agreement shall be deemed to be terminated upon completion of all payments required 
under this paragraph (b). 
 
(c) Disposition of the facilities related to this E&P Agreement after receipt of Project 
Developer’s notice of its determination not to interconnect shall be decided in accordance 
with the GIP. 
 
