[PART VIII-NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION - Part 5 of 7]

Part VIII, Subpart E, section 426(C)(1) as a result of an event that meets the 
standards of a Force Majeure event as defined in Tariff, Part I, section 1 shall be 
excluded from such consecutive three-year period, provided that the holder of the 
Capacity Interconnection Rights exercises due diligence to remedy the event.  A 
Generation Capacity Resource that loses Capacity Interconnection Rights 
pursuant to this section may continue Interconnection Service, to the extent of 
such lost rights, as an Energy Resource in accordance with (and for the remaining 
term of) its Generation Interconnection Agreement and/or applicable terms of the 
Tariff. 
 
3. Replacement of Generation  
 
In the event of the Deactivation of a Generation Capacity Resource (in accordance 
with Tariff, Part V and any Applicable Standards), or removal of Capacity 
Resource status (in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6 or Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 6.6A), any Capacity Interconnection Rights associated 
with such Generating Facility shall terminate one year from the Deactivation 
Date, or one year from the date the Capacity Resource status change takes effect, 
unless the holder of such rights (including any holder that acquired the rights after 
Deactivation or removal of Capacity Resource status) has submitted a completed 
Generation Interconnection Request up to one year after the Deactivation Date, or 
up to one year from the date the Capacity Resource status changes take effect, 
which claims the same Capacity Interconnection Rights in accordance with Tariff, 
Part VIII, Subpart B, section 403(D) or a Replacement Generation Project 
Developer has submitted a completed Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Service Request up to one year after the Deactivation Date which claims the same 
Capacity Interconnection Rights in accordance with Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart J, 
section 437.  A Generation Project Developer or Replacement Generation Project 
Developer must submit any claim for Capacity Interconnection Rights from 
deactivating units concurrently with its Application for Interconnection Service or 
Application for Replacement Generation Interconnection Service.  A Generation 
Project Developer claim for Capacity Interconnection Rights from deactivating 
units must be received by Transmission Provider prior to the Application 
Deadline to be reviewed to determine acceptance in any given Cycle.  Such new 
Generation Interconnection Request may include a request to increase Capacity 
Interconnection Rights in addition to the replacement of the previously 
deactivated amount, or amount removed from Capacity Resource status, as a 
single Generation Interconnection Request.  A Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Request may not increase or request to increase Capacity 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 426 Capacity Interconnection Rights 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 3 
Interconnection Rights in addition to the replacement of the amount of the 
Capacity Interconnection Rights of the deactivating unit.  Transmission Provider 
may perform thermal, short circuit, and/or stability studies, as necessary and in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals, due to any changes in the electrical 
characteristics of any newly proposed equipment, or where there is a change in 
Point of Interconnection, which may result in the loss of a portion or all of the 
Capacity Interconnection Rights as determined by such studies. 
 
Upon execution of a Generation Interconnection Agreement reflecting its new 
Generation Interconnection Request or Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Service Request, the holder of the Capacity Interconnection Rights will retain 
only such rights that are commensurate with the size in megawatts of the 
replacement generation, not to exceed the amount of the holder’s Capacity 
Interconnection Rights associated with the facility upon Deactivation or removal 
of Capacity Resource status.  Any desired increase in Capacity Interconnection 
Rights must be reflected in a Generation Interconnection Request and be 
accredited through the applicable procedures in Tariff, Part VIII.  In the event the 
new Generation Interconnection Request to which this section refers is, or is 
deemed to be, terminated and/or withdrawn for any reason at any time, the 
pertinent Capacity Interconnection Rights shall not terminate until the end of the 
one-year period from the Deactivation Date, or the end of the one year period 
from the date the Capacity Resource status change takes effect.  In the event the 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Request to which this section 
refers does not meet the requirements for Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Service specified in Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart J, section 437(A), 
Transmission Provider shall notify the Replacement Generation Project Developer 
to that effect.  If Transmission Provider provides such notice more than one year 
after the Deactivation Date, the Replacement Generation Project Developer shall 
retain the pertinent Capacity Interconnection Rights provided it submits a new 
Generation Interconnection Request for the Generating Facility in a Cycle 
currently open for Applications to be submitted under Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart B, 
section 403(A) and complies with the applicable provisions of Tariff, Part VIII, 
Subpart B, section 403, including section 403(D)(1), within sixty (60) days of 
receiving such notice.  In the event the Replacement Generation Project 
Developer’s Replacement Generation Interconnection studies are not completed 
within the study timeframes provided in Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart J, section 
437(C)(1) or the Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Request to 
which this section refers is, or is deemed to be, withdrawn from the Replacement 
Generation Interconnection process and an Application is submitted for that 
project in the Cycle Process, the Replacement Generation Project Developer or 
former Replacement Generation Project Developer, as applicable, shall retain the 
pertinent Capacity Interconnection Rights after the end of the one-year period 
from the Deactivation Date, for so long as it has a valid Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Service Request or New Service Request that is still being 
considered by Transmission Provider, and until a Generation Interconnection 
Agreement setting forth such Capacity Interconnection Rights is effective.  When 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 426 Capacity Interconnection Rights 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 4 
the project is withdrawn from the Replacement Generation Interconnection 
process, its Replacement Generation Request Number shall be terminated. 
 
4. Transfer of Capacity Interconnection Rights 
 
Capacity Interconnection Rights may be sold or otherwise transferred subject to 
compliance with such procedures as may be established by Transmission Provider 
regarding such transfer and notice to Transmission Provider of any Generating 
Facilities that will use the Capacity Interconnection Rights after the transfer.  The 
transfer of Capacity Interconnection Rights shall not itself extend the periods set 
forth in Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 426(C)(2) regarding loss of Capacity 
Interconnection Rights. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 427 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 427 
Incremental Rights 
 
A. Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
 
1. Right of Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer to Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights  
 
A Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer that (a) pursuant to this 
Tariff, Part VIII reimburses Transmission Provider for the costs of constructing or 
completing Network Upgrades required to accommodate its New Service Request 
or Upgrade Request, or (b) pursuant to its Construction Service Agreement 
undertakes responsibility for constructing or completing Network Upgrades 
required to accommodate its New Service Request or Upgrade Request, shall be 
entitled to receive the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights as determined in 
accordance with this Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 427(A).  However, a 
Transmission Project Developer that interconnects Merchant D.C. Transmission 
Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities with the 
Transmission System shall be entitled to Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
associated with such Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable 
A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities only if the Transmission Project 
Developer has elected, pursuant to Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 428, to 
receive Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, Incremental Capacity Transfer 
Rights, and Incremental Deliverability Rights in lieu of Transmission Injection 
Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights. 
 
2. Procedures for Assigning Incremental Auction Revenue Rights  
 
No less than 45 days prior to the in-service date, as determined by the Office of 
the Interconnection, of the applicable transmission facility or upgrade related to a 
New Service Request or Upgrade Request, the Office of the Interconnection shall 
notify the Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer that has 
responsibility to reimburse the costs of, or responsibility for, constructing or 
completing the transmission facility or upgrade, that initial requests for 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights associated with the transmission facility or 
upgrade must be submitted to the Office of the Interconnection within a time 
period specified by the Office of the Interconnection in the notification.  The 
Office of the Interconnection then shall commence a three-round allocation 
process.  In round one, one-third of the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
available for each point-to-point combination requested in that round will be 
assigned to the requesters of the specific combinations in accordance with Tariff, 
Part VIII, Subpart E, section 427(A)(3). 
 
In round two, two-thirds of the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights available for 
each requested point-to-point combination in that round will be assigned in 
accordance with Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 427(A)(3).  In round three, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 427 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 2 
all available Incremental Auction Revenue Rights will be assigned for the 
requested point-to-point combinations in that round in accordance with Tariff, 
Part VIII, Subpart E, section 427(A)(3).  In each round, a requester may request 
the same point-to-point combination as in the previous rounds or submit a 
different combination.  In rounds one and two, requesters may accept the 
assignment of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights or refuse them.  Acceptance 
of the assignment in rounds one and two will remove the assigned Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights from availability in the next rounds.  Refusal of an 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights assignment in rounds one and two will 
result in the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights being available for the next 
round.  The Incremental Auction Revenue Rights assignments made in round 
three will be final and binding.  The final and binding Incremental Auction 
Revenue Right assignment for a requested point-to-point combination in each  
round shall in no event be less than one third of 80% and no  greater than one-
third of 100% of the non-binding estimate of  Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights for that point-to-point  combination that was provided to the Transmission 
Project  Developer or Upgrade Customer. For each round, a request for 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall specify a single point-to-point 
combination for which the Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer 
desires Incremental Auction Revenue Rights and shall be in a form specified by 
the Office of the Interconnection and in accordance with procedures set forth in 
the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the Interconnection shall specify the deadlines 
for submission of requests in each round of the allocation process and shall 
complete the allocation process before the in-service date of the upgrade. 
 
3. Determination of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights to be Provided to 
Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall determine the Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights to be provided to a Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade 
Customer associated with a particular transmission facility or upgrade pursuant to 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 427(A)(2) using the tools described in Tariff, 
Attachment K, including an assessment of the simultaneous feasibility of any 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights and all other outstanding Auction Revenue 
Rights.  For each requested point-to-point combination, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall determine, simultaneously with all other requested point-to-
point combinations, the base system Auction Revenue Rights capability, 
excluding the impact of any new transmission facilities or upgrades necessary to 
accommodate New Service Requests or Upgrade Requests.  The Office of the 
Interconnection then shall similarly determine, for each requested point-to-point 
combination, the Auction Revenue Rights capability, including the impact of any 
new transmission facilities or upgrades.  For each point-to-point combination, the 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights capability shall be the difference between 
the Auction Revenue Rights capability in the base system analysis and the 
Auction Revenue Rights capability in the analysis including the impact of the new 
transmission facilities and upgrades.  When multiple Transmission Project 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 427 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 3 
Developers or Upgrade Customers have cost responsibility for the same new 
transmission facility or upgrade, Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall be 
assigned to each Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer in 
proportion to the Transmission Project Developer’s or Upgrade Customer’s 
relative cost responsibilities for the facility and in inverse proportion to the 
relative flow impact on constrained facilities or interfaces of the point-to-point 
combinations selected by the Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade 
Customer. 
 
4. Duration of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights  
 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights received by a Transmission Project 
Developer or Upgrade Customer pursuant to this Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, 
section 427(A) shall be available as of the first day of the first month that the 
Network Upgrades required to accommodate its New Service Request or Upgrade 
Request that are associated with the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights are 
included in the transmission system model for the monthly FTR auction and shall 
continue to be available for 30 years or for the life of the associated facility or 
upgrade, whichever is less, subject to any subsequent pro-rata reductions of all 
Auction Revenue Rights (including Incremental Auction Revenue Rights) in 
accordance with Tariff, Attachment K - Appendix.  At any time during this 30-
year period (or the life of the facility or upgrade, whichever is less), in lieu of 
continuing this 30-year Auction Revenue Right, the Transmission Project 
Developer, or Upgrade Customer shall have a one-time choice to switch to an 
optional mechanism, whereby, on an annual basis, the Transmission Project 
Developer or Upgrade Customer has the choice to request an Auction Revenue 
Right during the annual Auction Revenue Rights allocation process (pursuant to 
Tariff, Attachment K – Appendix, section 7.4.2) between the same source and 
sink, provided the Auction Revenue Right is simultaneously feasible, pursuant to 
Tariff, Attachment K – Appendix, section 7.5.  A Transmission Project Developer 
or Upgrade Customer may return Incremental Auction Revenue Rights that it no 
longer desires at any time, provided that the Office of the Interconnection 
determines that it can simultaneously accommodate all remaining outstanding 
Auction Revenue Rights following the return of such Auction Revenue Rights.  In 
the event a Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer returns 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, the Transmission Project Developer or 
Upgrade Customer shall have no further rights regarding such Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
5. Value of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
 
The value of Incremental Auction Revenue Right(s) to be provided to a 
Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer associated with a particular 
transmission facility or upgrade pursuant to Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 
427(A)(2) that become effective at the beginning of a Planning Period shall be 
determined in the same manner as annually allocated Auction Revenue Right(s) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 427 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 4 
based on the nodal prices resulting from the annual Financial Transmission Rights 
auction.  The value of such Incremental Auction Revenue Rights that become 
effective after the commencement of a Planning Period shall be determined on a 
monthly basis for each month in the Planning Period beginning with the month 
the Incremental Auction Revenue Right(s) becomes effective.  The value of such 
Incremental Auction Revenue Right shall be equal to the megawatt amount of the 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights multiplied by the LMP differential between 
the source and sink nodes of the corresponding FTR obligations in each prompt-
month FTR auction that occurs from the effective date of the Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights through the end of the relevant Planning Period.  For each 
Planning Period thereafter, the value of such Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
shall be determined in the same manner as Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
that became effective at the beginning of a Planning Period. 
 
6. Rate-based Facilities  
 
No Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall be received by a Transmission 
Project Developer or Upgrade Customer with respect to transmission investment 
that is included in the rate base of a public utility and on which a regulated return 
is earned. 
 
B. Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights 
 
1. Right of Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer to Incremental 
Capacity Transfer Rights  
 
A Transmission Project Developer that interconnects Merchant Transmission 
Facilities with the Transmission System shall be entitled to receive any 
Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights that are associated with the interconnection 
of such Merchant Transmission Facilities as determined in accordance with this 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 427(B).  In addition, an Upgrade Customer 
that (a) reimburses Transmission Provider for the costs of constructing or 
completing Customer-Funded Upgrades, or (b) pursuant to its Construction 
Service Agreement undertakes responsibility for constructing or completing 
Customer-Funded Upgrades shall be entitled to receive any Incremental Capacity 
Transfer Rights associated with such required facilities and upgrades as 
determined in accordance with this Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 427(B). 
 
a. Certain Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities 
  
A Transmission Project Developer (a) that interconnects Merchant D.C. 
transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities with the Transmission System, one terminus of which is located 
outside the PJM Region and the other terminus of which is located within 
the PJM Region, and (b) that will be a Merchant Transmission Provider, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 427 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 5 
shall not receive any Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights with respect to 
its Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities.  Transmission Provider shall not 
include available transfer capability at the interface(s) associated with 
such Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities in its calculations of Available Transfer 
Capability under Tariff, Attachment C. 
 
2. Procedures for Assigning Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights 
 
After execution of a Study Agreement but prior to the issuance of an 
Interconnection Agreement or Upgrade Construction Service Agreement, a 
Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer may request the Office of 
the Interconnection to determine the Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights as 
measured by the increase in Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit resulting from 
the interconnection or addition of Merchant Transmission Facilities or a 
Customer-Funded Upgrade identified in the System Impact Study for the related 
New Service Request.  At the time of such request, the Transmission Project 
Developer or Upgrade Customer must also specify no more than three Locational 
Deliverability Areas in which to determine the Incremental Capacity Transfer 
Rights.  Subject to the limitation of Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 
427(B)(1)(a), the Office of the Interconnection shall allocate the Incremental 
Capacity Transfer Rights associated with Merchant Transmission Facilities to the 
Transmission Project Developer that is interconnecting such facilities.  The Office 
of the Interconnection shall allocate the Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights 
associated with a Customer-Funded Upgrade to the Upgrade Customer(s) bearing 
cost responsibility for such facility or upgrade in proportion to each Upgrade 
Customer’s cost responsibility for the facility or upgrade. 
 
3. Determination of Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights to be Provided to 
Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall determine the Incremental Capacity 
Transfer Rights to be provided to Transmission Project Developers or Upgrade 
Customers in accordance with the applicable terms of the Reliability Pricing 
Model, in Tariff, Attachment DD, and pursuant to the procedures specified in the 
PJM Manuals. 
 
4. Duration of Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights 
 
Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights received by a Transmission Project 
Developer or Upgrade Customer shall be effective for 30 years from, as 
applicable, commencement of Interconnection Service, Transmission Service, or 
Network Service for the affected Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade 
Customer or the life of the pertinent facility or upgrade, whichever is shorter, 
subject to any subsequent pro-rata reallocations of all Capacity Transfer Rights 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 427 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 6 
(including Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights) in accordance with the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
5. Rate-based Facilities 
 
No Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights shall be received by a Transmission 
Project Developer or Upgrade Customer with respect to transmission investment 
that is included in the rate base of a public utility and on which a regulated return 
is earned. 
 
C. Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 
1. Right of Transmission Interconnection Customer to Incremental Deliverability 
Rights  
 
A Transmission Project Developer shall be entitled to receive the Incremental 
Deliverability Rights associated with its Merchant Transmission Facilities as 
determined in accordance with this section, provided, however, that a 
Transmission Project Developer that proposes to interconnect Merchant D.C. 
Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities that connect the Transmission System with another control area shall be 
entitled to Incremental Deliverability Rights associated with such Merchant D.C. 
Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities only if the Interconnection Customer has elected, pursuant to Tariff, 
Part VIII, Subpart E, section 428, to receive Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, 
Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights, and Incremental Deliverability Rights in 
lieu of Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights. 
 
2. Procedures for Assigning Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 
Transmission Provider shall include in the System Impact Study a determination 
of the Incremental Deliverability Rights associated with the Transmission Project 
Developer’s Merchant Transmission Facilities.  Transmission Provider shall post 
on its OASIS the Incremental Deliverability Rights that it assigns to the 
Transmission Project Developer under this section 427(C)(2). 
 
3. Determination of Incremental Deliverability Rights to be Provided to 
Transmission Project Developer 
 
Transmission Provider shall determine the Incremental Deliverability Rights to be 
provided to a Transmission Project Developer associated with proposed Merchant 
Transmission Facilities under Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 427(C)(2) 
pursuant to procedures specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
4. Duration of Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 427 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 7 
Incremental Deliverability Rights assigned to a Transmission Project Developer 
shall be effective until the earlier of the date that is one year after the 
commencement of Interconnection Service for such customer or the date that such 
Transmission Project Developer’s New Service Request is withdrawn and 
terminated, or deemed to be so, in accordance with the Tariff.  Notwithstanding 
the preceding sentence, Incremental Deliverability Rights that are transferred 
pursuant to an IDR Transfer Agreement under the Tariff shall be deemed to be 
Capacity Interconnection Rights of the generation owner that acquires them under 
such agreement upon commencement of Interconnection Service related to the 
generation owner’s Generating Facility and shall remain effective for the life of 
such Generating Facility, or for the life of the Merchant Transmission Facilities 
associated with the transferred IDRs, whichever is shorter.  The deemed 
conversion of IDRs to Capacity Interconnection Rights under this Tariff, Part 
VIII, Subpart E, section 427(C)(4) shall not affect application to such IDRs of the 
other provisions of this Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 427(C).  A 
Transmission Project Developer may return Incremental Deliverability Rights that 
it no longer desires at any time.  In the event that a Transmission Project 
developer returns Incremental Deliverability Rights, it shall have no further rights 
regarding such Incremental Deliverability Rights. 
 
5. Transfer of Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 
Incremental Deliverability Rights may be sold or otherwise transferred at any 
time after they are assigned pursuant to Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 
427(C)(2), subject to execution and submission of an IDR Transfer Agreement in 
accordance with the Tariff.  The transfer of Incremental Deliverability Rights 
shall not itself extend the periods set forth in Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 
427(C)(7) regarding loss of Incremental Deliverability Rights. 
 
6. Effectiveness of Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 
Incremental Deliverability Rights shall not entitle the holder thereof to use the 
capability associated with such rights unless and until Transmission Provider 
commences Interconnection Service related to the Merchant Transmission 
Facilities associated with such rights. 
 
7. Loss of Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 
Incremental Deliverability Rights shall be extinguished (a) in the event that the 
New Service Request of the Transmission Project Developer to which the rights 
were assigned is withdrawn and terminated, or deemed to be so, as provided in the 
Tariff, without regard for whether the rights have been transferred pursuant to an 
IDR Transfer Agreement, or (b) such rights are not transferred pursuant to an IDR 
Transfer Agreement on or before the date that is one year after the 
commencement of Interconnection Service related to the Merchant Transmission 
Facilities with which the rights are associated. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 427 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 8 
 
8. Rate-based Facilities 
 
No Incremental Deliverability Rights shall be received by a Transmission Project 
Developer with respect to transmission investment that is included in the rate base 
of a public utility and on which a regulated return is earned. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 428 Rights for Transmission Interconnection 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 428 
Rights for Transmission Interconnections 
 
A. Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights 
 
1. Purpose 
 
Transmission Injection Rights shall entitle the holder, as provided in this Tariff, 
Part VIII, Subpart E, section 428, to schedule energy transmitted on the associated 
Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities for injection into the Transmission System, at a Point of 
Interconnection of the Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable 
A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities with the Transmission System.  
Transmission Withdrawal Rights shall entitle the holder, as provided in this 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 428, to schedule for transmission on the 
associated Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities energy to be withdrawn from the Transmission 
System, at a Point of Interconnection of the Merchant D.C. Transmission 
Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities with the 
Transmission System. 
 
2. Receipt of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights 
 
Subject to the terms of this Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 428, a 
Transmission Project Developer that constructs Merchant D.C. Transmission 
Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities that 
interconnect with the Transmission System and with another control area outside 
the PJM Region shall be entitled to receive Transmission Injection Rights and/or 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights at each terminal where such Transmission 
Project Developer’s Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable 
A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities interconnect with the Transmission 
System.  A Transmission Project Developer that is granted Firm Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights and/or transmission service customers that have a Point of 
Delivery at the border of the PJM Region where the Transmission System 
interconnects with the Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable 
A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities, may be responsible for a reasonable 
allocation of transmission upgrade costs added to the Regional Transmission 
Expansion Plan, in accordance with Tariff, Part I, section 3E and Tariff, Schedule 
12.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Transmission Injection Rights and 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights awarded to a Transmission Project Developer 
that interconnects Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities shall be, 
throughout the duration of the Service Agreement applicable to such 
interconnection, conditioned on such Transmission Project Developer’s 
continuous operation of its Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities in 
a controllable manner, i.e., in a manner effectively the same as operation of D.C. 
transmission facilities. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 428 Rights for Transmission Interconnection 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 2 
 
a. Total Capability 
 
A Transmission Project Developer or other party may hold Transmission 
Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights simultaneously at 
the same terminal on the Transmission System.  However, neither the 
aggregate Transmission Injection Rights nor the aggregate Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights held at a terminal may exceed the Nominal Rated 
Capability of the interconnected Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities 
and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities, as stated in the 
associated Service Agreement(s). 
 
3. Determination of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal 
Rights to be Provided to Transmission Project Developer  
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall determine the Transmission Injection 
Rights and the Transmission Withdrawal Rights associated with Merchant D.C. 
Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities to be provided to eligible Transmission Project Developer(s) pursuant to 
the procedures specified in the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the Interconnection 
shall state in the System Impact Studies the Transmission Injection Rights and 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights (including the quantity of each type of such 
rights) to be made available to the Transmission Project Developer at the 
terminal(s) where the pertinent Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or 
Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities interconnect with the 
Transmission System.  Such rights shall become available to the Transmission 
Project Developer pursuant to the Interconnection Agreement and upon 
commencement of Interconnection Service thereunder. 
 
4. Duration of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights  
 
Subject to the terms of Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 428(A)(7), 
Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights received 
by a Transmission Project Developer shall be effective for the life of the 
associated Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities. 
 
5. Rate-based Facilities  
 
No Transmission Injection Rights or Transmission Withdrawal Rights shall be 
received by a Transmission Project Developer with respect to transmission 
investment that is included in the rate base of a public utility and on which a 
regulated return is earned. 
 
6. Transfer of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 428 Rights for Transmission Interconnection 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 3 
Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights may be 
sold or otherwise transferred subject to compliance with such procedures as 
Transmission Provider may establish, by publication in the PJM Manuals, 
regarding such transfer and required notice to Transmission Provider of use of 
such rights after the transfer.  The transfer of Transmission Injection Rights or of 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights shall not itself extend the periods set forth in 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 428(A)(7) regarding loss of such rights. 
 
7. Loss of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights 
 
a. Operational Standards  
 
To retain Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal 
Rights, the associated Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or 
Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities must operate or be 
capable of operating at the capacity level associated with the rights.  
Operational capability shall be established consistent with applicable 
criteria stated in the PJM Manuals.  Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities 
and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities that meet these 
operational standards shall retain their Transmission Injection Rights and 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights regardless of whether they are used to 
transmit energy within or to points outside the PJM Region. 
 
b. Failure to Meet Operational Standards  
 
In the event that any Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or 
Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities fail to meet the 
operational standards set forth in this Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 
428(A)(7) for any consecutive three-year period, the holder(s) of the 
associated Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal 
Rights will lose such rights in an amount reflecting the loss of first 
contingency transfer capability.  Any period during which the transmission 
facility fails to meet the standards set forth in this Tariff, Part VIII, 
Subpart E, section 428(A)(7) as a result of an event that meets the 
standards of a Force Majeure event shall be excluded from such 
consecutive three-year period, provided that the owner of the Merchant 
D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities exercises due diligence to remedy the event. 
 
B. Interconnection Rights for Certain Transmission Interconnections 
 
1. Qualification to Receive Certain Rights 
 
In order to obtain the rights associated with Merchant Transmission Facilities 
(other than Merchant Network Upgrades) provided under the Tariff, prior to the 
commencement of Interconnection Service associated with such facilities, a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 428 Rights for Transmission Interconnection 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 4 
Transmission Interconnection Customer that interconnects or adds Merchant 
Transmission Facilities (other than Merchant Network Upgrades) to the 
Transmission System must become and remain a signatory to the Consolidated 
Transmission Owners Agreement. 
 
2. Upgrades to Merchant Transmission Facilities 
 
In the event that Transmission Provider determines in accordance with the 
Regional Transmission Expansion Planning Protocol of Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 6 that an addition or upgrade to Merchant A.C. Transmission Facilities 
is necessary, the owner of such Merchant A.C. Transmission Facilities shall 
undertake such addition or upgrade and shall operate and maintain all facilities so 
constructed or installed in accordance with Good Utility Practice and with 
applicable terms of the Operating Agreement and the Consolidated Transmission 
Owners Agreement, as applicable.  Cost responsibility for each such addition or 
upgrade shall be assigned in accordance with Operating Agreement, Schedule 6.  
Each Transmission Owner to whom cost responsibility for such an upgrade is 
assigned shall further be responsible for all costs of operating and maintaining the 
addition or upgrade in proportion to its respective assigned cost responsibilities. 
 
3. Limited Duration of Rights in Certain Cases 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 
428, in the case of any Merchant Transmission Facilities that solely involves 
advancing the construction of a transmission enhancement or expansion other 
than a Merchant Transmission Facility that is included in the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan, any rights available to such facility under this 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 428 shall be limited in duration to the period 
from the inception of Interconnection Service for the affected Merchant 
Transmission Facilities until the time when the Regional Transmission Expansion 
Plan originally provided for the pertinent transmission enhancement or expansion 
to be completed. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 429 Milestones 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 429 
Milestones 
 
A. In order to proceed with Generation Interconnection Agreement, within 60 days after 
receipt of the Phase III System Impact Study (or, if no Phase IIII System Impact Study 
was required, then after the results of either the Phase I or Phase II System Impact Study 
were provided on Transmission Provider’s website): 
 
1. Project Developer must demonstrate that it has: 
 
a. entered a fuel delivery agreement and water agreement, if necessary, and 
that it controls any necessary rights-of-way for fuel and water 
interconnections; and 
 
b. obtained any necessary local, county, and state site permits; and 
 
c. signed a memorandum of understanding for the acquisition of major 
equipment; and 
 
d. if applicable, obtained any necessary local, county, and state siting permits 
or other required approvals for the construction of its proposed Merchant 
D.C. Transmission Facilities or Merchant Controllable A.C. Transmission 
Facilities. 
 
B. The Transmission Provider may include any additional related milestone dates beyond 
those included in the Generation Interconnection Agreement for the construction of the 
project Developer’s generation project that, if not met, shall relieve the Transmission 
Provider and the Transmission Owner(s) from the requirement to construct the necessary 
facilities and upgrades. 
 
1. If the milestone dates in the Generation Interconnection Agreement are not met, 
such Generation Interconnection Agreement may be deemed to be terminated and 
Transmission Provider may cancel such agreement with the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission, and the New Service Agreement may simultaneously be 
deemed to be terminated and withdrawn. 
 
2. Such milestones may include site acquisition, permitting, regulatory certifications 
(if required), acquisition of any necessary third-party financial commitments, 
commercial operation, and similar events.   
 
3. The Transmission Provider may reasonably extend any such milestone dates 
(including those required in order to proceed with an Generation Interconnection 
Agreement) in the event of delays not caused by the Project Developer, such as 
unforeseen regulatory or construction delays that could not be remedied by the 
Project Developer through the exercise of due diligence.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 429 Milestones 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 2 
4. The Generation Interconnection Agreement set forth in Tariff, Part IX, Subpart B, 
provides Project Developer shall also have a one-time option to extend any 
milestone (other than any milestone related to Site Control) for a total period of 
one year regardless of cause.  Other milestone dates stated in the Generation 
Interconnection Agreement shall be deemed to be extended coextensively with 
Project Developer’s use this provision. 
 
5. Termination and withdrawal of a New Service Request for failure to meet a 
milestone shall not relieve the Project Developer from reimbursing the 
Transmission Provider (for the benefit of the affected Transmission Owner(s)) for 
the costs incurred prior to such termination and withdrawal.  Applicable 
provisions of the Generation Interconnection Agreement set forth in Tariff, Part 
IX, Subpart B will continue in effect after termination to the extent necessary to 
provide for final billings, billing adjustments, and the determination and 
enforcement of liability and indemnification obligations arising from events or 
acts that occurred while the CSA or the applicable Generation Interconnection 
Agreement was in effect. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 430 Winter Capacity Interconnection Rights 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 430 
Winter Capacity Interconnection Rights  
 
By August 31 of each calendar year, PJM shall solicit requests from Generation Owners of 
Intermittent Resources and Environmentally Limited Resources which seek to obtain additional 
Capacity Interconnection Rights related to the winter period (defined as November through April 
of a Delivery Year) for the purposes of aggregation under the Tariff, Attachment DD. Such 
additional Capacity Interconnection Rights would be for a one-year period as specified by PJM 
in the solicitation. Responses to such solicitation must be submitted by such interested 
Generation Owners by October 31 prior to the upcoming Base Residual Auction. Such requests 
shall be studied for deliverability similar to any Generation Project Developer that seeks to 
submit a New Service Request; however, such requests shall not be required to submit a New 
Service Request. PJM shall study such requests in a manner so as to prevent infringement on 
available system capabilities of any resource which is already in service, or which has an 
executed service agreement from Tariff, Part IX, or that has a valid New Service Request in a 
Cycle. 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 431 Interconnection Studies Processing Time 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 431 
Interconnection Studies Processing Time and Metrics 
 
 
A. Phase I System Impact Studies Processing Time  
1.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase I System Impact Studies 
completed within the six month reporting period,  
2.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase I System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six 
month reporting period that were completed more than 120 days, as determined in 
conformance with Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart C, section 405(A)(1)(b)(i). 
3.  At the end of the six month reporting period, the number of active valid New 
Service Requests with ongoing incomplete Phase I System Impact Studies 
exceeding 120 days, as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart 
C, section 405(A)(1)(b)(i). 
4.  Mean time (in days), for Phase I System Impact Studies completed within 
Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting 
period, from the date when Transmission Provider initiated the performance of the 
System Impact Studies to the date when Transmission Provider provided the 
completed Phase I System Impact Study to Project Developers. 
5.  Percentage of New Service Requests with Phase I System Impact Studies 
exceeding 120 days as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart 
C, section 405(A)(1)(b)(i) to complete this six month reporting period, calculated 
as the sum of section 431(A)(2)plus 431(A)(3) divided by the sum of section 
431(A)(1) plus 431(A)(3).  
B. Phase II System Impact Studies Processing Time  
1.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase II System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-
month reporting period. 
2.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase II System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six 
month reporting period that were completed more than 180 days as determined in 
conformance with Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart C, section 407(A)(1)(e)(i) after the 
date the end of Decision Point I. 
3.  At the end of the six month reporting period, the number of active valid New 
Service Requests with ongoing incomplete Phase II System Impact Studies 
exceeding 180 days as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart 
C, section 407(A)(1)(e)(i) after the end of Decision Point I.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 431 Interconnection Studies Processing Time 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 2 
4.  Mean time (in days), for Phase II System Impact Studies completed within 
Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting period 
from the day after the end of Decision Point to the date when Transmission 
Provider provided the completed Phase II Interconnection System Impact Study to 
Project Developers. 
5.  Percentage of New Service Requests with Phase II System Impact Studies 
exceeding 180 days as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart 
C, section 407(A)(1)(e)(i), to complete this six month reporting period, calculated 
as the sum of section 431(B)(2) plus 431(B)(3) divided by the sum of section 
431(B)(1)plus 431(B)(3)).  
C. Phase III System Impact Studies Processing Time  
1.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase III System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six 
month reporting period.  
2.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase III System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six 
month reporting period that were completed more 180 days as determined in 
conformance with Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart C, section 409(A)(1)(e)(i) after the 
end of Decision Point II. 
3.  At the end of the six month reporting period, the number of active valid New 
Service Requests with ongoing incomplete Phase III System Impact Studies 
exceeding 180 days as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart 
C, section 409(A)(1)(e)(i) after the end of Decision Point II.  
4.  Mean time (in days), for Phase III System Impact Studies completed within 
Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six month reporting 
period, from the day after the end of Decision Point II to the date when 
Transmission Provider provided the completed Phase III Interconnection System 
Impact Study to the Project Developers.  
5.  Percentage of New Service Requests with Phase III System Impact Studies 
exceeding the sum of 180 days as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part 
VIII, Subpart C, section 409(A)(1)(e)(i) to complete this six month reporting 
period, calculated as the sum of section 431(C)(2) plus 431(C)(3) divided by the 
sum of section 431(C)(1) plus 431(C)(3)).  
D. Withdrawn New Service Requests  
1.  Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six month reporting period.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 431 Interconnection Studies Processing Time 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 3 
2.  Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six month reporting period before the start of 
Planning Phase I.  
3.  Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six month reporting period from start of Phase I, 
to at or before the end of Decision Point I. 
4.  Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six month reporting period after the end of 
Decision Point to at or before the end of Decision Point II.  
5.  Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six month reporting period after the end of 
Decision Point II to before execution of an interconnection-related service 
agreement or transmission service agreement, or Project Developer or Eligible 
Customer requests the filing of an unexecuted, new interconnection agreement.  
6. Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue after execution of an interconnection-related service 
agreement or transmission service agreement, or Project Developer or Eligible 
Customer requests the filing of an unexecuted, new interconnection agreement. 
7.  Mean time (in days), for all withdrawn New Service Requests, from the date 
when the request was determined to be valid to when Transmission Provider 
received the request to withdraw from the Cycle.  
E. Posting Requirements 
Transmission Provider is required to post on its website the measures in Tariff, Part VIII, 
Subpart E, sections 431(A) through 431(D) for each six-month reporting period within 30 
days of the end of the reporting period; however, if the 30th does not fall on a Business 
Day, this time period shall conclude on the next Business Day.  Transmission Provider 
will keep the measures posted on its website for three calendar years with the first 
required reporting year to be 2020.  
F. Additional Compliance Requirements 
In the event that any of the values calculated in Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 
431(A)(5); Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 431(B)(5); or Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, 
section 431(C)(5) exceeds 25 percent for two consecutive reporting periods, 
Transmission Provider will have to comply with the measures below for the next two six-
month reporting periods and must continue reporting this information until Transmission 
Provider reports two consecutive six-month reporting periods without the values 
calculated in Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 431(A)(5); Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, 
section 431(B)(5); or Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 431(C)(5) exceeding 25 percent 
for two consecutive six-month reporting periods: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 431 Interconnection Studies Processing Time 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 4 
1. Transmission Provider must submit a report to the Commission describing the  
reason for each study or group of clustered studies pursuant to an New Service 
Request that exceeded its deadline (i.e., 45, 90 or 180 days) for completion 
(excluding any allowance for Reasonable Efforts).  Transmission Provider must 
describe the reasons for each study delay and any steps taken to remedy these 
specific issues and, if applicable, prevent such delays in the future.  The report 
must be filed at the Commission within 45 days of the end of the reporting period. 
2. Transmission Provider shall aggregate the total number of employee hours and 
third party consultant hours expended towards interconnection studies within its 
coordinated region that reporting period and post on its website. This information 
is to be posted within 30 days of the end of the reporting period.  
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 432 Transmission Provider Website Postings 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 432 
Transmission Provider Website Postings 
 
A. Transmission Provider shall maintain, on Transmission Provider’s website, with regard to 
Project Developers, Eligible Customers and Upgrade Customers, the following: 
 
1. the Project Identifier; 
 
2. the proposed or incremental Maximum Facility Output and Capacity 
Interconnection Rights; 
 
3. the location of the project by state; 
 
4. the station or transmission line or lines where the interconnection will be made; 
 
5. the project’s projected in-service date; 
 
6. the project’s status; 
 
7. the type of service requested; 
 
8. the availability of any related studies; 
 
9. the type of project to be constructed. 
 
B. Transmission Provider shall maintain, on Transmission Provider’s website, with regard to 
Replacement Generation Project Developers the following: 
 
 1. the Replacement Generation Request Number; 
2. the Application date of the Replacement Generation Interconnection Service 
Request; 
3. the proposed Replacement Generation Resource’s Maximum Facility Output and 
Capacity Interconnection Rights; 
4. the location of the proposed Replacement Generation Resource by state and by 
Transmission Owner Zone; 
5. the substation where the proposed Replacement Generation Resource will be 
interconnected; 
6. the deactivating Generating Facility from which Capacity Interconnection Rights 
are being claimed; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VIII.E 432 Transmission Provider Website Postings 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 2 
7. The anticipated Deactivation Date of the deactivating Generating Facility;  
8. the proposed Replacement Generation Resource’s projected in-service date; 
9. the proposed Replacement Generation Resource’s status; 
10. the fuel type of proposed Replacement Generation Resource to be constructed; 
and 
11. the availability of any related studies. 
 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart F 
WMPA 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart F 
WHOLESALE MARKET PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT/NON-JURISDICTIONAL 
AGREEMENTS 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart F 
WMPA --> OATT Part VIII.F 433 WMPA//Non-Jurisdictional Agreements 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart F, section 433 
Wholesale Market Participation Agreement/Non-Jurisdictional Agreements 
 
A. In some instances, Generation Project Developer may physically connect its Generating 
Facility to non-jurisdictional distribution or sub-transmission facilities in order to access 
the electrical Point of Interconnection on the Transmission System (the “POI”), for the 
purpose of engaging in FERC-jurisdictional Wholesale Transactions.  In those instances, 
Generation Project Developer must enter into both a (1) non-jurisdictional 
interconnection agreement with the owner or operator of the non-jurisdictional 
distribution or sub-transmission facilities, which governs the physical connection of the 
Generating Facility to those non-jurisdictional facilities; and (2) a three-party Wholesale 
Market Participation Agreement (“WMPA”) with PJM and the affected Transmission 
Owner in order to effectuate Wholesale Transactions in PJM’s markets. 
 
B. Generation Project Developer shall follow the Application Rules of Tariff, Part VIII, 
Subpart C, section 403 that apply to a Generating Facility, and shall complete the 
Application and Studies Agreement set forth in Tariff, Part IX, Subpart A (the 
“Application”).  In the Application, Generation Project Developer shall indicate its intent 
to physically connect its Generating Facility to distribution or sub-transmission facilities 
that currently are not subject to FERC jurisdiction, for the purpose of injecting energy at 
the Point of Interconnection and engaging in FERC-jurisdictional Wholesale 
Transactions. 
 
C. Generation Project Developer shall provide with the Application a copy of the executed 
interconnection agreement that governs the physical connection of the Generating 
Facility to the non-jurisdictional distribution or sub-transmission facilities, if the 
interconnection agreement is available.  If the interconnection agreement is not yet 
available, Generation Project Developer shall provide with the Application all available 
documentation demonstrating that Generation Project Developer has requested or applied 
for interconnection through the relevant non-jurisdictional process, and Generation 
Project Developer shall provide a status report. 
 
D. In order to proceed to the execution of a WMPA, Generation Project Developer must 
demonstrate that it has executed the non-jurisdictional interconnection agreement by no 
later than Decision Point III in the applicable Cycle.   
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart G 
AFFECTED SYSTEM RULES 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-004 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart G 
AFFECTED SYSTEM RULES 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart G 
AFFECTED SYSTEM RULES --> OATT Part VIII.G 434 Affected System Rules 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart G, section 434 
Affected System Rules 
 
A. New Service Request Affected System Rules Where Affected System is an Electric 
System other than Transmission Provider’s Transmission System 
1. The Transmission Provider will coordinate with Affected System Operators the 
conduct of any studies required to determine the impact of a New Service Request 
on any Affected System and will include those results in the Phase II System 
Impact Study, if available from the Affected System.   
a. The Transmission Provider will invite such Affected System Operators to 
participate in meetings held with the Project Developer as necessary, as 
determined by the Transmission Provider.   
b. The Project Developer or Eligible Customer will cooperate with the 
Transmission Provider in all matters related to the conduct of studies by 
Affected System Operators and the determination of modifications to 
Affected Systems needed to accommodate the New Service Request.   
c. Transmission Provider shall contact any potential Affected System 
Operators and provide or otherwise coordinate information regarding each 
relevant New Service Request as required for the Affected System 
Operator's studies of the effects of such request.   
d. If an affected system study agreement is required by the Affected System 
Operator, in order to remain in the relevant Cycle, Project Developer or 
Eligible Customer shall enter into an affected system study agreement 
with the Affected System Operator the later of: (i) the conclusion of 
Decision Point II of the relevant Cycle, or (ii) 60 days of Transmission 
Provider sending notification to Project Developer or Eligible Customer of 
the need to enter into such Affected System Study Agreement. If Project 
Developer or Eligible Customer fails to comply with these requirements, 
its New Service Request at issue shall be deemed terminated and 
withdrawn.  
e. Affected System Study results will be provided by Phase II of the relevant 
Cycle, if available.  To the extent Affected System results are included in 
the Phase II System Impact Study, the Project Developer shall be provided 
the opportunity to review such study results consistent with Tariff, Part 
VIII, Subpart C, section 407(A)(1)(c), as applicable 
f.  
i. The Project Developer or Eligible Customer shall be responsible 
for the costs of any identified facilities commensurate with the 
Affected System Operator’s tariff’s allocation of responsibility for 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart G 
AFFECTED SYSTEM RULES --> OATT Part VIII.G 434 Affected System Rules 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 2 
such costs to such Project Developer or Eligible Customer if their 
project request has been initiated pursuant to such Affected System 
Operator’s tariff. 
ii. Neither the Transmission Provider, the relevant Transmission 
Owner(s) associated with such New Service Request, nor the 
Affected System Operator shall be responsible for making 
arrangements for any necessary engineering, permitting, and/or 
construction of transmission or distribution facilities on any 
Affected System or for obtaining any regulatory approval for such 
facilities. 
(a) The Transmission Provider and the relevant Transmission 
Owner(s) will undertake Reasonable Efforts to assist the 
Project Developer or Eligible Customer in obtaining such 
arrangements, including, without limitation, providing any 
information or data required by such other Affected System 
Operator pursuant to Good Utility Practice.  
2. In no event shall the need for upgrades to an Affected System delay Initial 
Operation of a Project Developer’s Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission 
Facility.  Notwithstanding the start of Initial Operation, Transmission Provider 
reserves the right to limit Generating Facility injections in the event of potential 
Affected System impacts, in accordance with Good Utility Practice.  Total 
injections may be limited pending coordination and completion of any necessary 
deliverability studies by the Affect System Operator. 
B. Affected System Rules Where Transmission Provider’s Transmission System is the 
Affected System 
1. An Affected System Customer responsible for an Affected System Facility that 
requires Network Upgrades to Transmission Provider’s Transmission System 
must contact Transmission Provider as set forth in the PJM Manuals.  Upon 
contact by the Affected System Customer, Transmission Provider will provide 
Affected System Customer with an Affected System Customer Facilities Study  
Application and Agreement (a form of which is found in Tariff, Part IX).  The 
Affected System Customer must electronically sign Affected System Customer 
Facilities Study Application and Agreement, and concurrently provide the 
required Study Deposit, by wire transfer, of $100,000. 
a. Affected System Customer shall include the project identification or 
reference number assigned to the Affected System Facility by the Affected 
System Operator and attach the relevant Affected System Operator Study 
that identified the need for such Facilities Study Agreement. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart G 
AFFECTED SYSTEM RULES --> OATT Part VIII.G 434 Affected System Rules 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 3 
i. Transmission Provider shall assign to Affected System Customer’s 
project the same project identification or reference number used by 
the Affected System Operator. 
b. Transmission Provider shall not start the review of the Affected System 
Customer Facilities Study Application and Agreement until such 
agreement is complete and the required Study Deposit is received by the 
Transmission Provider. 
c. The Study Deposit is non-binding, and actual study costs may exceed the 
Study Deposit. 
 
i. Affected System Customer is responsible for, and must pay, all 
actual study costs. 
 
ii. If Transmission Provider sends Affected System Customer 
notification of additional study costs, then Affected System 
Customer must either: (i) pay all additional study costs within 20 
Business Days of Transmission Provider sending the notification of 
such additional study costs or (ii) withdraw its Affected System 
Customer Facilities Study Application and Agreement.  If Affected 
System Customer fails to complete either (i) or (ii), then 
Transmission Provider shall deem the Affected System Customer 
Facilities Study  Application and Agreement to be terminated and 
withdrawn. 
 
2. Transmission Provider shall cooperate with the Affected System Operator in all 
matters related to the conduct of studies and the determination of modifications to 
Transmission Provider’s Transmission System.   
 
3. Upon receipt of the Affected System Customer Facility Study report, 
Transmission Provider and the Affected System Customer shall enter into a stand-
alone Construction Service Agreement or a Network Upgrade Cost Responsibility 
Agreement (forms of which are found in Tariff, Part IX) for the construction of 
the upgrades with each Transmission Owner responsible for constructing such 
upgrades if a Construction Service Agreement is required, or for each set of 
Common Use Upgrades on the system of such Transmission Owner if a Network 
Upgrade Cost Responsibility Agreement is required.  Transmission Provider shall 
provide in electronic form a draft stand-alone Construction Service Agreement or 
a Network Upgrade Cost Responsibility Agreement in electronic form. 
a. For purposes of applying the stand-alone Construction Service Agreement 
or a Network Upgrade Cost Responsibility Agreement (forms of which are 
found in Tariff, Part IX) to the construction of such upgrades, the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart G 
AFFECTED SYSTEM RULES --> OATT Part VIII.G 434 Affected System Rules 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 4 
developer of the Affected System Facility shall be deemed to be a Project 
Developer pursuant to Tariff, Part VIII.   
b. Such stand-alone Construction Service Agreement or a Network Upgrade 
Cost Responsibility Agreement (forms of which are found in Tariff, Part 
IX) shall be negotiated and executed within 60 days of the Transmission 
Provider’s issuance of a draft version thereof.  If the 60th day does not fall 
on a Business Day, the phase shall be extended to end on the next 
Business Day. The 60 days shall run concurrently with the relevant Cycle 
process.  
i. Security is required within 30 days of the Transmission Provider’s 
issuance of the draft stand-alone Construction Service Agreement 
or a Network Upgrade Cost Responsibility Agreement (forms of 
which are found in Tariff, Part IX).  The Security obligation may 
be adjusted based on additional factors, including, but not limited 
to, New Service Requests or Upgrade Requests being withdrawn in 
the relevant Cycle.  If the 30th day does not fall on a Business Day, 
the phase shall be extended to end on the next Business Day.  
ii. Parties may use not more than 60 days to conduct negotiations 
concerning the draft Construction Service Agreement or a Network 
Upgrade Cost Responsibility Agreement.  Upon receipt of the draft 
agreement(s), Affected System Customer and Transmission 
Owner(s), as applicable, shall have no more than 20 Business Days 
to return written comments on the draft agreement(s).  
Transmission Provider shall have no more than 10 Business Days 
to respond and, if appropriate, provide revised draft(s) of the 
agreement(s) in electronic form.  Transmission Provider, in its sole 
discretion, may allow more than 60 days for the Final Agreement 
Negotiation Phase. 
 
c. If the Affected System Customer or Transmission Owner, as applicable, 
determines that final agreement negotiations are at an impasse, such party 
shall notify the other parties of the impasse, and such party may request 
Transmission Provider to file the unexecuted Construction Service 
Agreement or a Network Upgrade Cost Responsibility Agreement with 
FERC or request in writing dispute resolution as allowed under Tariff, Part 
I, section 12 or, if concerning the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, 
consistent with Operating Agreement, Schedule 5.  If Transmission 
Provider, in its sole discretion, determines that the negotiations are at an 
impasse, Transmission Provider shall notify the other parties of the 
impasse, and may file the unexecuted Construction Service Agreement 
with the FERC. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart G 
AFFECTED SYSTEM RULES --> OATT Part VIII.G 434 Affected System Rules 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 5 
d. Not later than 15 Business Days after receipt of the final Construction 
Service Agreement or a Network Upgrade Cost Responsibility Agreement, 
Project Developer or Affected System Customer shall either: 
 
i. execute the final Construction Service Agreement or a Network 
Upgrade Cost Responsibility Agreement in electronic form and 
return it to Transmission Provider electronically;  
 