[PART IX-FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS - Part 3 of 14]

Condition, the Project Developer proposing to remove such facilities from service shall provide 
prior notice of such activities to the Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner, and the 
Interconnected Entities shall coordinate all scheduling of planned facility outages with 
Transmission Provider, in accordance with applicable sections of the Operating Agreement, the 
PJM Manuals and any other applicable operating guidelines or directives of the Transmission 
Provider.  Subject to the foregoing, the Interconnected Entity scheduling a facility outage shall 
use Reasonable Efforts to coordinate such outage with the other Interconnected Entity’s 
scheduled outages. 
 
5.2.3 Outages Required for Maintenance:   
 
Subject to any necessary approval by Transmission Provider, each Interconnected Entity shall 
provide necessary equipment outages to allow the other Interconnected Entity to perform 
periodic maintenance, repair or replacement of its facilities and such outages shall be provided at 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 5 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
mutually agreeable times, unless conditions arise which an Interconnected Entity believes, in 
accordance with Good Utility Practice, may endanger persons or property.  
 
5.2.4 Rescheduling of Planned Outages:   
 
To the extent so provided by the Tariff, the Operating Agreement, and the PJM Manuals, an 
Interconnected Entity may seek compensation from Transmission Provider for any costs related 
to rejection by Transmission Provider of a request of such Interconnected Entity for a planned 
maintenance outage.  
 
5.2.5 Outage Restoration:   
 
If an outage on an Interconnected Entity’s facilities adversely affects the other Interconnected 
Entity’s facilities, the Interconnected Entity that owns or controls the facility that is out of 
service shall use Reasonable Efforts to restore the facility to service promptly.  
 
5.3 Inspections and Testing:   
 
Each Interconnected Entity shall perform routine inspection and testing of its facilities and 
equipment in accordance with Good Utility Practice as may be necessary to ensure the continued 
interconnection of the Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility with the 
Transmission System in a safe and reliable manner.  Each Interconnected Entity shall have the 
right, upon advance written notice, to request reasonable additional testing of an Interconnected 
Entity’s facilities for good cause, as may be in accordance with Good Utility Practice. 
 
5.4 Right to Observe Testing:   
 
Each Interconnected Entity shall notify the other Interconnected Entity in advance of its 
performance of tests of its portion of the Interconnection Facilities.  The other Interconnected 
Entity shall, at its own expense, have the right, but not the obligation, to: 
 
(a) Observe the other Party’s tests and/or inspection of any of its system protection facilities 
and other protective equipment, including power system stabilizers; 
 
(b) Review the settings of the other Party’s system protection facilities and other protective 
equipment; 
 
(c) Review the other Party’s maintenance record relative to the Interconnection Facilities, 
system protection facilities and other protective equipment; and 
 
(d) Exercise these rights from time to time as it deems necessary upon reasonable notice to 
the other Party.  
 
5.5 Secondary Systems:  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 5 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 3 
Each Interconnected Entity agrees to cooperate with the other in the inspection, maintenance, 
and testing of those Secondary Systems directly affecting the operation of an Interconnected 
Entity's facilities and equipment which may reasonably be expected to affect the other 
Interconnected Entity’s facilities.  Each Interconnected Entity shall provide advance notice to the 
other Interconnected Entity before undertaking any work on such equipment, especially in 
electrical circuits involving circuit breaker trip and close contacts, current transformers, or 
potential transformers. 
 
5.6 Access Rights:   
 
Each Interconnected Entity shall provide the other Interconnected Entity access to areas under its 
control as reasonably necessary to permit the other Interconnected Entity to perform its 
obligations under this Appendix 2, including operation and maintenance obligations.  An 
Interconnected Entity that obtains such access shall comply with all safety rules applicable to the 
area to which access is obtained.  Each Interconnected Entity agrees to inform the other 
Interconnected Entity’s representatives of safety rules applicable to an area. 
 
5.7 Observation of Deficiencies:   
 
If an Interconnection Party observes any Abnormal Condition on, or becomes aware of a lack of 
scheduled maintenance and testing with respect to, an Interconnection Party’s facilities and 
equipment that might reasonably be expected to adversely affect the observing Interconnection 
Party’s facilities and equipment, the observing Interconnection Party shall provide prompt notice 
under the circumstances to the appropriate Interconnection Party, and such Interconnection Party 
shall consider such notice in accordance with Good Utility Practice.  Any Interconnection Party’s 
review, inspection, and approval related to the other Interconnection Party’s facilities and 
equipment shall be limited to the purpose of assessing the safety, reliability, protection, and 
control of the Transmission System and shall not be construed as confirming or endorsing the 
design of such facilities and equipment, or as a warranty of any type, including safety, durability, 
or reliability thereof.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the observing Interconnection Party shall 
have no liability whatsoever for failure to give a deficiency notice to the other Interconnection 
Party and the Interconnected Entity that owns the relevant Interconnection Facilities and 
Transmission Owner Upgrades shall remain fully liable for its failure to determine and correct 
deficiencies and defects in its facilities and equipment. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 6 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
6 Emergency Operations 
 
6.1 Obligations:   
 
Subject to Applicable Laws and Regulations, each Interconnection Party shall comply with the 
Emergency Condition procedures of NERC, the Applicable Regional Entity, Transmission 
Provider, the Transmission Owner and Project Developer. 
 
6.2 Notice:   
 
Each Interconnection Party shall notify the other parties promptly when it becomes aware of an 
Emergency Condition that may reasonably be expected to affect operation of the Generating 
Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility, the Project Developer Interconnection Facilities, the 
Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities and Transmission Owner Upgrades, or the 
Transmission System.  To the extent information is known, the notification shall describe the 
Emergency Condition, the extent of the damage or deficiency, the expected effect on the 
facilities and/or operation thereof, its anticipated duration and the corrective action taken and/or 
to be taken.  The initial notice shall be followed as soon as practicable with written notice. 
 
6.3 Immediate Action:   
 
An Interconnection Party becoming aware of an Emergency Condition may take such action, 
including disconnection of the Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility from the 
Transmission System, as is reasonable and necessary in accord with Good Utility Practice (i) to 
prevent, avoid, or mitigate injury or danger to, or loss of, life or property; (ii) to preserve the 
reliability of, in the case of Project Developer, the Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission 
Facility, or, in the case of Transmission Provider or the Transmission Owner, the Transmission 
System and interconnected sub-transmission and distribution facilities; or (iii) to expedite 
restoration of service.  Unless, in Project Developer’s reasonable judgment, immediate action is 
required to prevent imminent loss of life or property, Project Developer shall obtain the consent 
of Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner prior to performing any manual switching 
operations at the Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility or the Generation 
Interconnection Facilities.  Each Interconnection Party shall use Reasonable Efforts to minimize 
the effect of its actions during an Emergency Condition on the facilities and operations of the 
other Interconnection Parties.  
 
6.4 Record-Keeping Obligations:   
 
Each Interconnection Party shall keep and maintain records of actions taken during an 
Emergency Condition that may reasonably be expected to affect the other parties’ facilities and 
make such records available for audit in accordance with section 19.3 of this Appendix 2. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 7 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
7 Safety 
 
7.1 General:   
 
Each Interconnected Entity and, as applicable, each Construction Party shall perform all work 
under this Appendix 2 that may reasonably be expected to affect the other Interconnected Entity 
and, as applicable, the other Construction Party in accordance with Good Utility Practice and all 
Applicable Laws and Regulations pertaining to the safety of persons or property.  An 
Interconnected Entity and, as applicable, a Construction Party performing work within the 
boundaries of the other Interconnected Entity’s facilities and, as applicable, the other 
Construction Party’s facilities must abide by the safety rules applicable to the site. Each party 
agrees to inform the other party’s representatives of applicable safety rules that must be obeyed 
on the premises.  A Construction Party performing work within an area controlled by another 
Construction Party must abide by the safety rules applicable to the area. 
 
7.2 Environmental Releases:   
 
Each Interconnected Entity and, as applicable, each Construction Party shall notify the other 
Interconnection Parties and, as applicable, Construction Parties, first orally and promptly 
thereafter in writing, of the release of any Hazardous Substances, any asbestos or lead abatement 
activities, or any type of remediation activities, related to the Generating Facility or Merchant 
Transmission Facility or the Interconnection Facilities and Transmission Owner Upgrades, any 
of which may reasonably be expected to affect one or both of the other parties.  The notifying 
party shall (i) provide the notice as soon as possible; (ii) make a good faith effort to provide the 
notice within 24 hours after the party becomes aware of the occurrence; and (iii) promptly 
furnish to the other parties copies of any publicly available reports filed with any governmental 
agencies addressing such events. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 8 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
8 Metering 
 
8.1 General:   
 
Project Developer shall have the right to install, own, operate, test, and maintain the necessary 
Metering Equipment.  In the event that Project Developer exercises this option, the Transmission 
Owner shall have the right to install its own check meter(s), at its own expense, at or near the 
location of the Metering Equipment.  If both Project Developer and Transmission Owner install 
meters, the meter installed by the Project Developer shall control unless it is determined by 
testing to be inaccurate.  If the Project Developer does not exercise the option provided by the 
first sentence of this section, the Transmission Owner shall have the option to install, own, 
operate, test and maintain all necessary Metering Equipment at Project Developer’s expense.  If 
the Transmission Owner does not exercise this option, the Project Developer shall install, own, 
operate, test and maintain all necessary Metering Equipment.  Transmission Provider shall 
determine the location where the Metering Equipment shall be installed, after consulting with 
Project Developer and the Transmission Owner.  All Metering Equipment shall be tested prior to 
any operation of the Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility.  Power flows to and 
from the Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility shall be compensated to the 
Point of Interconnection, or, upon the mutual agreement of the Transmission Owner and the 
Project Developer, to another location. 
 
8.2 Standards:   
 
All Metering Equipment installed pursuant to this Appendix 2 to be used for billing and 
payments shall be revenue quality Metering Equipment and shall satisfy applicable ANSI 
standards and Transmission Provider’s metering standards and requirements.  Nothing in this 
Appendix 2 precludes the use of Metering Equipment for any retail services of the Transmission 
Owner provided, however, that in such circumstances Applicable Laws and Regulations shall 
control. 
 
8.3 Testing of Metering Equipment:   
 
The Interconnected Entity that, pursuant to section 8.1 of this Appendix 2, owns the Metering 
Equipment shall operate, maintain, inspect, and test all Metering Equipment upon installation 
and at least once every two years thereafter.  Upon reasonable request by the other 
Interconnected Entity, the owner of the Metering Equipment shall inspect or test the Metering 
Equipment more frequently than every two years, but in no event more frequently than three 
times in any 24-month period.  The owner of the Metering Equipment shall give reasonable 
notice to the Interconnection Parties of the time when any inspection or test of the owner’s 
Metering Equipment shall take place, and the other parties may have representatives present at 
the test or inspection.  If Metering Equipment is found to be inaccurate or defective, it shall be 
adjusted, repaired or replaced in order to provide accurate metering.  Where the Transmission 
Owner owns the Metering Equipment, the expense of such adjustment, repair or replacement 
shall be borne by the Project Developer, except that the Project Developer shall not be 
responsible for such expenses where the inaccuracy or defect is caused by the Transmission 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 8 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
Owner.  If Metering Equipment fails to register, or if the measurement made by Metering 
Equipment during a test varies by more than 1 percent from the measurement made by the 
standard meter used in the test, the owner of the Metering Equipment shall inform Transmission 
Provider, and the Transmission Provider shall inform the other Interconnected Entity, of the need 
to correct all measurements made by the inaccurate meter for the period during which the 
inaccurate measurements were made, if the period can be determined.  If the period of inaccurate 
measurement cannot be determined, the correction shall be for the period immediately preceding 
the test of the Metering Equipment that is equal to one-half of the time from the date of the last 
previous test of the Metering Equipment, provided that the period subject to correction shall not 
exceed nine months. 
 
8.4 Metering Data:   
 
At Project Developer's expense, the metered data shall be telemetered (a) to a location designated 
by Transmission Provider; (b) to a location designated by the Transmission Owner, unless the 
Transmission Owner agrees otherwise; and (c) to a location designated by Project Developer. 
Data from the Metering Equipment at the Point of Interconnection shall be used, under normal 
operating conditions, as the official measurement of the amount of energy delivered from or to 
the Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility to the Point of Interconnection, 
provided that the Transmission Provider’s rules applicable to Station Power as set forth at Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.7.10(d) shall control with respect to a Generation Project 
Developer’s consumption of Station Power. 
 
8.5 Communications 
 
8.5.1 Project Developer Obligations:   
 
Project Developer shall install and maintain satisfactory operating communications with 
Transmission Provider’s system dispatcher or its other designated representative and with the 
Transmission Owner.  Project Developer shall provide standard voice line, dedicated voice line, 
and electronic communications at its Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility 
control room.  Project Developer also shall provide and maintain backup communication links 
with both Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner for use during abnormal conditions as 
specified by Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner, respectively.  Project Developer 
further shall provide the dedicated data circuit(s) necessary to provide Project Developer data to 
the Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner as necessary to conform with Applicable 
Technical Requirements and Standards. 
 
8.5.2 Remote Terminal Unit:  
 
Unless otherwise deemed unnecessary by Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner, as 
indicated in the Generation Interconnection Agreement, prior to any operation of the Generating 
Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility, a remote terminal unit, or equivalent data collection 
and transfer equipment acceptable to the Interconnection Parties, shall be installed by Project 
Developer, or by the Transmission Owner at Project Developer's expense, to gather accumulated 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 8 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 3 
and instantaneous data to be telemetered to the location(s) designated by Transmission Provider 
and Transmission Owner through use of a dedicated point-to-point data circuit(s) as indicated in 
section 8.5.1 of this Appendix 2.  Instantaneous, bi-directional real power and, with respect to a 
Generation Project Developer’s Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility, reactive 
power flow information, must be telemetered directly to the location(s) specified by 
Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner. 
 
8.5.3 Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs):  
 
A Project Developer entering the New Services Queue on or after October 1, 2012, with a 
proposed new Generating Facility that has a Maximum Facility Output equal to or greater than 
100 MW shall install and maintain, at its expense, phasor measurement units (“PMUs”). PMUs 
shall be installed on the Generating Facility low side of the generator step-up transformer, unless 
it is a non-synchronous generation facility, in which case the PMUs shall be installed on the 
Generating Facility side of the Point of Change in Ownership.  The PMUs must be capable of 
performing phasor measurements at a minimum of 30 samples per second which are 
synchronized via a high-accuracy satellite clock.  To the extent Project Developer installs similar 
quality equipment, such as relays or digital fault recorders, that can collect data at least at the 
same rate as PMUs and which data is synchronized via a high-accuracy satellite clock, such 
equipment would satisfy this requirement.  As provided for in the PJM Manuals, a Project 
Developer shall be required to install and maintain, at its expense, PMU equipment which 
includes the communication circuit capable of carrying the PMU data to a local data 
concentrator, and then transporting the information continuously to the Transmission Provider; 
as well as store the PMU data locally for 30 days. Project Developer shall provide to 
Transmission Provider all necessary and requested information through the Transmission 
Provider synchrophasor system, including the following: (a) gross MW and MVAR measured at 
the Generating Facility side of the generator step-up transformer (or, for a non-synchronous 
generation facility, to be measured at the Generating Facility side of the Point of 
Interconnection); (b) generator terminal voltage; (c) generator terminal frequency; and (d) 
generator field voltage and current, where available.  The Transmission Provider will install and 
provide for the ongoing support and maintenance of the network communications linking the 
data concentrator to the Transmission Provider.  Additional details regarding the requirements 
and guidelines of PMU data and telecommunication of such data are contained in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 9 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
9 Force Majeure  
 
9.1 Notice:   
 
An Interconnection Party that is unable to carry out an obligation imposed on it by this Appendix 
2 due to Force Majeure shall notify the other parties in writing or by telephone within a 
reasonable time after the occurrence of the cause relied on. 
 
9.2 Duration of Force Majeure:   
 
A party shall not be considered to be in Default with respect to any obligation hereunder, other 
than the obligation to pay money when due, if prevented from fulfilling such obligation by Force 
Majeure.  A party unable to fulfill any obligation hereunder (other than an obligation to pay 
money when due) by reason of Force Majeure shall give notice and the full particulars of such 
Force Majeure to the other parties in writing as soon as reasonably possible after the occurrence 
of the cause relied upon.  Those notices shall specifically state full particulars of the Force 
Majeure, the time and date when the Force Majeure occurred, and when the Force Majeure is 
reasonably expected to cease.  Written notices given pursuant to this Article shall be 
acknowledged in writing as soon as reasonably possible.  The party affected shall exercise 
Reasonable Efforts to remove such disability with reasonable dispatch, but shall not be required 
to accede or agree to any provision not satisfactory to it in order to settle and terminate a strike or 
other labor disturbance.  The party affected has a continuing notice obligation to the other 
parties, and must update the particulars of the original Force Majeure notice and subsequent 
notices, in writing, as the particulars change.  The affected party shall be excused from whatever 
performance is affected only for the duration of the Force Majeure and while the party exercises 
Reasonable Efforts to alleviate such situation.  As soon as the non-performing party is able to 
resume performance of its obligations excused because of the occurrence of Force Majeure, such 
party shall resume performance and give prompt written notice thereof to the other parties. 
 
9.3 Obligation to Make Payments:   
 
Any Interconnection Party's obligation to make payments for services shall not be suspended by 
Force Majeure. 
 
9.4 Definition of Force Majeure: 
 
For the purposes of this section, shall mean any act of God, labor disturbance, act of the public 
enemy, war, insurrection, riot, fire, storm or flood, explosion, breakage or accident to machinery 
or equipment, any order, regulation, or restriction imposed by governmental, military, or 
lawfully established civilian authorities, or any other cause beyond a party’s control that, in any 
of the foregoing cases, by exercise of due diligence, such party could not reasonably have been 
expected to avoid, and which, by the exercise of due diligence, it has been unable to overcome.  
Force majeure does not include (i) a failure of performance that is due to an affected party’s own 
negligence or intentional wrongdoing; (ii) any removable or remediable causes (other than 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 9 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
settlement of a strike or labor dispute) which an affected party fails to remove or remedy within a 
reasonable time; or (iii) economic hardship of an affected party. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 10 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
10 Charges 
 
10.1 Specified Charges:   
 
If and to the extent required by the Transmission Owner, after the Initial Operation of the 
Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility, Project Developer shall pay one or more 
of the types of recurring charges described in this section to compensate the Transmission Owner 
for costs incurred in performing certain of its obligations under this Appendix 2.  All such 
charges shall be stated in Schedule E of the Generator Interconnection Agreement.  Permissible 
charges under this section may include: 
 
 (a) Administration Charge – Any such charge may recover only the costs and 
expenses incurred by the Transmission Owner in connection with administrative obligations such 
as the preparation of bills, the processing of Generating Facility- or Merchant Transmission 
Facility-specific data on energy delivered at the Point of Interconnection and costs incurred in 
similar types of administrative processes related to Project Developer’s Interconnection Service.  
An Administration Charge shall not be permitted to the extent that the Transmission Owner’s 
other charges to the Project Developer under the same Generator Interconnection Agreement 
include an allocation of Transmission Owner’s administrative and general expenses and/or other 
corporate overhead costs.  
 
 (b) Metering Charge – Any such charge may recover only the Transmission Owner’s 
costs and expenses associated with operation, maintenance, inspection, testing, and carrying or 
capital replacement charges for any Metering Equipment that is owned by the Transmission 
Owner. 
 
 (c) Telemetering Charge – Any such charge may recover only the Transmission 
Owner’s costs and expenses associated with operation, maintenance, inspection, testing, and 
carrying or capital replacement charges for any telemetering equipment that is owned by the 
Transmission Owner and that is used exclusively in conjunction with Interconnection Service for 
the Project Developer. 
 
 (d) Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility Operations and 
Maintenance Charge – Any such charge may recover only the Transmission Owner’s costs and 
expenses associated with operation, maintenance, inspection, testing, modifications, taxes, and 
carrying or capital replacement charges for Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities and 
Transmission Owner Upgrades related to the Project Developer’s Interconnection Service and 
that are owned by the Transmission Owner, provided that  
 
  (i) any such charge shall exclude costs and expenses associated with 
Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities and Transmission Owner Upgrades owned by the 
Transmission Owner that are radial line facilities that serve load in addition to a Project 
Developer; and 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 10 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
  (ii) except as otherwise provided by Applicable Laws and Regulations, any 
such charge may include only an allocated share, derived in accordance with the allocations 
contained in the System Impact Study(ies), of costs and expenses associated with Transmission 
Owner Interconnection Facilities and Transmission Owner Upgrades owned by the Transmission 
Owner that are radial line facilities that serve more than one Project Developer.  At the discretion 
of the affected Interconnected Entities, a Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility 
Operations and Maintenance Charge authorized under this section may apply on a per-incident 
basis or on a monthly or other periodic basis. 
 
 (e) Other Charges – Any other charges applicable to the Project Developer, as 
mutually agreed upon by the Project Developer and the Transmission Owner. 
 
10.2 FERC Filings: 
 
To the extent required by law or regulation, each Interconnection Party shall seek FERC 
acceptance or approval of its respective charges or the methodology for the calculation of such 
charges.  If such filing is required, Transmission Owner shall provide Transmission Provider and 
Project Developer with appropriate cost data, schedules and/or written testimony in support of 
any charges under this section in such manner and at such time as to allow Transmission 
Provider to include such materials in its filing of the Generation Interconnection Agreement with 
the FERC. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 11 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
11 Security, Billing and Payments 
 
11.1 Recurring Charges Pursuant to section 10:   
 
The following provisions shall apply with respect to recurring charges applicable to 
Interconnection Service after Initial Operation of the Generating Facility or Merchant 
Transmission Facility pursuant to section 10 of this Appendix 2.   
 
11.1.1 General:   
 
Except as, and to the extent, otherwise provided in the Generation Interconnection Agreement, 
billing and payment of any recurring charges applicable to Interconnection Service after Initial 
Operation of the Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility pursuant to section 10 of 
this Appendix 2 shall be in accordance with section 7 of the Tariff.  The Transmission Owner 
shall provide Transmission Provider with all necessary information and supporting data that 
Transmission Provider may reasonably require to administer billing for and payment of 
applicable charges under this Appendix 2.  Transmission Provider shall remit to the 
Transmission Owner revenues received in payment of Transmission Owner’s charges to Project 
Developer under this Appendix 2 upon Transmission Provider’s receipt of such revenues.  At 
Transmission Provider’s reasonable discretion, charges to Project Developer and remittances to 
Transmission Owner under this Appendix 2 may be netted against other amounts owed by or to 
such parties under the Tariff. 
 
11.1.2 Billing Disputes:   
 
In the event of a billing dispute between Transmission Provider and Project Developer, 
Transmission Provider shall continue to provide interconnection service under this Appendix 2 
as long as Project Developer (i) continues to make all payments not in dispute, and (ii) pays to 
Transmission Provider or into an independent escrow account the portion of the invoice in 
dispute, pending resolution of such dispute.  If Project Developer fails to meet these two 
requirements for continuation of service, then Transmission Provider shall so inform the 
Interconnection Parties and may provide notice to Project Developer of a Breach pursuant to 
section 15 of this Appendix 2.  Within 30 days after the resolution of the dispute, the 
Interconnection Party that owes money to the other Interconnection Party shall pay the amount 
due with interest calculated in accord with section 11.4. 
 
11.2 Costs for Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities and Transmission Owner 
Upgrades:   
 
The following provisions shall apply with respect to charges for the Costs of the Transmission 
Owner for which the Project Developer is responsible.   
 
11.2.1 Adjustments to Security:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 11 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
The Security provided by Project Developer at or before execution of the Generation 
Interconnection Agreement (a) shall be reduced as portions of the work are completed, and/or (b) 
shall be increased or decreased as required to reflect adjustments to Project Developer’s cost 
responsibility, as determined in accordance with the GIP, to correspond with changes in the 
Scope of Work developed in accordance with Transmission Provider’s scope change process for 
interconnection projects set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
 
11.2.2 Invoice:   
 
The Transmission Owner shall provide Transmission Provider a quarterly statement of the 
Transmission Owner’s scheduled expenditures during the next three months for, as applicable (a) 
the design, engineering and construction of, and/or for other charges related to, construction of 
the Interconnection Facilities and Transmission Owner Upgrades for which the Transmission 
Owner is responsible under the GIA, or (b) in the event that the Project Developer exercises the 
Option to Build, for the Transmission Owner’s oversight costs (i.e. costs incurred by the 
Transmission Owner when engaging in oversight activities to satisfy itself that the Project 
Developer is complying with the Transmission Owner’s standards and Specifications for the 
construction of facilities) associated with Project Developer’s building Transmission Owner 
Interconnection Facilities and Stand Alone Network Upgrades, including but not limited to Costs 
for tie-in work and Cancellation Costs.  Transmission Owner oversight costs shall be consistent 
with Schedule L of this GIA.  Transmission Provider shall bill Project Developer on behalf of the 
Transmission Owner, for the Transmission Owner’s expected Costs during the subsequent three 
months.  Project Developer shall pay each bill within 20 days after receipt thereof.  Upon receipt 
of each of Project Developer’s payments of such bills, Transmission Provider shall reimburse the 
Transmission Owner.  Project Developer may request that the Transmission Provider provide a 
quarterly cost reconciliation.  Such a quarterly cost reconciliation will have a one-quarter lag, 
e.g., reconciliation of Costs for the first calendar quarter of work will be provided at the start of 
the third calendar quarter of work, provided, however, that section 11.2.3 of this Appendix 2 
shall govern the timing of the final cost reconciliation upon completion of the work. 
 
11.2.3 Final Invoice:   
 
Within 120 days after the Transmission Owner completes construction and installation of the 
Interconnection Facilities and Transmission Owner Upgrades for which the Transmission Owner 
is responsible under the Generation Interconnection Agreement, Transmission Provider shall 
provide Project Developer with an accounting of, and the appropriate Interconnection Party, and 
where applicable, the Construction Party shall make any payment to the other that is necessary to 
resolve, any difference between (a) Project Developer's responsibility under the Tariff for the 
actual Cost of such facilities, and (b) Project Developer's previous aggregate payments to 
Transmission Provider for the Costs of such facilities.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, 
Transmission Provider shall not be obligated to make any payment to either the Project 
Developer or the Transmission Owner that the preceding sentence requires it to make unless and 
until the Transmission Provider has received the payment that it is required to refund from the 
Interconnection Party, and where applicable, the Construction Party owing the payment. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 11 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 3 
11.2.4 Disputes:   
 
In the event of a billing dispute between any of the Interconnection Parties, and where 
applicable, the Construction Parties, Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner shall 
continue to perform their respective obligations pursuant to this Generation Interconnection 
Agreement and any related Construction Service Agreements so long as (a) Project Developer 
continues to make all payments not in dispute, and (b) the Security held by the Transmission 
Provider while the dispute is pending exceeds the amount in dispute, or (c) Project Developer 
pays to Transmission Provider or into an independent escrow account the portion of the invoice 
in dispute, pending resolution of such dispute.  If Project Developer fails to meet any of these 
requirements, then Transmission Provider shall so inform the other Interconnection Parties and 
Construction Parties and Transmission Provider or the Transmission Owner may provide notice 
to Project Developer of a Breach pursuant to section 15 of this Appendix 2. 
 
11.3 No Waiver:   
 
Payment of an invoice shall not relieve Project Developer from any other responsibilities or 
obligations it has under this Appendix 2, nor shall such payment constitute a waiver of any 
claims arising hereunder. 
 
11.4 Interest:   
 
Interest on any unpaid, delinquent amounts shall be calculated in accordance with the 
methodology specified for interest on refunds in the FERC’s regulations at 18 C.F.R. § 
35.19a(a)(2)(iii) and shall apply from the due date of the bill to the date of payment. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 12 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
12 Assignment 
 
12.1 Assignment with Prior Consent:   
 
Except as provided in section 12.2 to this Appendix 2, no Interconnection Party shall assign its 
rights or delegate its duties, or any part of such rights or duties, under the Generation 
Interconnection Agreement without the written consent of the other Interconnection Parties, 
which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed.  Any such 
assignment or delegation made without such written consent shall be null and void.  An 
Interconnection Party may make an assignment in connection with the sale, merger, or transfer of 
a substantial portion or all of its properties including the Interconnection Facilities and 
Transmission Owner Upgrades which it owns or will own upon completion of construction and 
the transfer of title required as set forth in section 23 of this Appendix 2, so long as the assignee 
in such a sale, merger, or transfer assumes in writing all rights, duties and obligations arising 
under this Generation Interconnection Agreement.  In addition, the Transmission Owner shall be 
entitled, subject to Applicable Laws and Regulations, to assign the Generation Interconnection 
Agreement to any Affiliate or successor that owns and operates all or a substantial portion of the 
Transmission Owner’s transmission facilities. 
 
12.2 Assignment Without Prior Consent 
 
12.2.1 Assignment to Owners:   
 
Project Developer may assign the Generation Interconnection Agreement without the 
Transmission Owner’s or Transmission Provider’s prior consent to any Affiliate or person that 
purchases or otherwise acquires, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all of the Generating 
Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility and the Project Developer Interconnection Facilities, 
provided that prior to the effective date of any such assignment, the assignee shall demonstrate 
that, as of the effective date of the assignment, the assignee has the technical and operational 
competence to comply with the requirements of this Generation Interconnection Agreement and 
assumes in a writing provided to the Transmission Owner and Transmission Provider all rights, 
duties, and obligations of Project Developer arising under this Generation Interconnection 
Agreement.  However, any assignment described herein shall not relieve or discharge the Project 
Developer from any of its obligations hereunder absent the written consent of the Transmission 
Provider, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.  Project 
Developer shall provide Transmission Provider with notice of any such assignment in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
12.2.2 Assignment to Lenders:   
 
Project Developer may, without the consent of the Transmission Provider or the Transmission 
Owner, assign the Generation Interconnection Agreement to any Project Finance Entity(ies), 
provided that such assignment does not alter or diminish Project Developer’s duties and 
obligations under this Generation Interconnection Agreement.  If Project Developer provides the 
Transmission Owner with notice of an assignment to any Project Finance Entity(ies) and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 12 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
identifies such Project Finance Entities as contacts for notice purposes pursuant to section 21 of 
this Appendix 2, the Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner shall provide notice and 
reasonable opportunity for such entity(ies) to cure any Breach under this Generation 
Interconnection Agreement in accordance with this Generation Interconnection Agreement. 
Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner shall, if requested by such lenders, provide such 
customary and reasonable documents, including consents to assignment, as may be reasonably 
requested with respect to the assignment and status of the Generation Interconnection 
Agreement, provided that such documents do not alter or diminish the rights of the Transmission 
Provider or Transmission Owner under this Generation Interconnection Agreement, except with 
respect to providing notice of Breach to a Project Finance Entity.  Upon presentation of the 
Transmission Provider and/or the Transmission Owner’s invoice therefor, Project Developer 
shall pay the Transmission Provider and/or the Transmission Owner’s reasonable documented 
cost of providing such documents and certificates.  Any assignment described herein shall not 
relieve or discharge the Project Developer from any of its obligations hereunder absent the 
written consent of the Transmission Owner and Transmission Provider. 
 
12.3 Successors and Assigns:   
 
This Generation Interconnection Agreement and all of its provisions are binding upon, and inure 
to the benefit of, the Interconnection Parties and their respective successors and permitted 
assigns. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 13 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
13 Insurance 
 
13.1 Required Coverages For Generation Resources Of More Than 20 Megawatts or 
Merchant Transmission Facilities:  
 
Each Interconnected Entity and, as applicable, Constructing Entity shall maintain insurance at its 
own expense as described in paragraphs (a) through (d) below. In addition, if there any 
construction activities associated with this GIA, each Interconnected Entity and, as applicable, 
Constructing Entity shall maintain insurance at its own expense as described in paragraph (e).  
All insurance shall be procured from insurance companies rated “A-”, VII, or better by AM Best 
and authorized to do business in a state or states in which the Interconnection Facilities and 
Transmission Owner Upgrades are or will be located.  Failure to maintain required insurance 
shall be a Breach of the Generation Interconnection Agreement. 
 
 (a) Workers Compensation insurance with statutory limits, as required by the state 
and/or jurisdiction in which the work is to be performed, and employer's liability insurance with 
limits of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000). 
 
 (b) Commercial General Liability Insurance and/or Excess Liability Insurance 
covering liability arising out of premises, operations, personal injury, advertising, products and 
completed operations coverage, independent contractors coverage, liability assumed under an 
insured contract, coverage for pollution to the extent normally available, and punitive damages to 
the extent allowable under applicable law, with limits of not less than one million dollars 
($1,000,000) per occurrence/one million dollars ($1,000,000) general aggregate/one million 
dollars ($1,000,000) products and completed operations aggregate. 
 
 (c) Business/Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance for coverage of owned and 
non-owned and hired vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers designed for travel on public roads, with a 
minimum, combined single limit of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) each accident 
for bodily injury, including death, and property damage. 
 
 (d) Excess and/or Umbrella Liability Insurance with a limit of liability of not less 
than twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) per occurrence.  These limits apply in excess of the 
employer’s liability, commercial general liability and business/commercial automobile liability 
coverages described above.  This requirement can be met alone or via a combination of primary, 
excess and/or umbrella insurance. 
 
 (e) In addition, if there are construction activities required in connection with this 
GIA, the following Professional Liability Insurance requirements shall apply:  
 
Professional Liability, including Contractors Legal Liability, providing errors, omissions 
and/or malpractice coverage.  Coverage shall be provided for the Interconnected Entity or 
Constructing Entity’s duties, responsibilities and performance outlined in Schedule L to 
this GIA, with limits of liability as follows: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 13 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
$10,000,000 each occurrence 
$10,000,000 aggregate 
 
An Interconnected Entity may meet the Professional Liability Insurance requirements by 
requiring third-party contractors, designers, or engineers, or other parties that are responsible for 
design work associated with the transmission facilities or Interconnection Facilities and 
Transmission Owner Upgrades necessary for the interconnection to procure professional liability 
insurance in the amounts and upon the terms prescribed by this section 13.1(e), and providing 
evidence of such insurance to the other Interconnected Entity.  Such insurance shall be procured 
from companies rated “A-”, VII, or better by AM Best and authorized to do business in a state or 
states in which the Interconnection Facilities and Transmission Owner Upgrades are located.  
Nothing in this section relieves the Interconnected Entity from complying with the insurance 
requirements.  In the event that the policies of the designers, engineers, or other parties used to 
satisfy the Interconnected Entity’s insurance obligations under this section become invalid for 
any reason, including but not limited to, (i) the policy(ies) lapsing or otherwise terminating or 
expiring; (ii) the coverage limits of such policy(ies) are decreased; or (iii) the policy(ies) do not 
comply with the terms and conditions of the Tariff; Interconnected Entity shall be required to 
procure insurance sufficient to meet the requirements of this section, such that there is no lapse 
in insurance coverage.  
 
13.1A Required Coverages for Generation Resources of 20 Megawatts or Less:   
 
Each Interconnected Entity and, as applicable, Constructing Entity shall maintain the types of 
insurance as described in section 13.1 paragraphs (a) through (e) in an amount sufficient to 
insure against all reasonably foreseeable direct liabilities given the size and nature of the 
generating equipment being interconnected, the interconnection itself, and the characteristics of 
the system to which the interconnection is made.  Additional insurance may be required by the 
Project Developer, as a function of owning and operating a Generating Facility.  All insurance 
shall be procured from insurance companies rated “A-”, VII, or better by AM Best and 
authorized to do business in a state or states in which the Interconnection Facilities and 
Transmission Owner Upgrades are located.  Failure to maintain required insurance shall be a 
Breach of the Generation Interconnection Agreement. 
 
13.2 Additional Insureds:   
 
The Commercial General Liability, Business/Commercial Automobile Liability and Excess 
and/or Umbrella Liability policies procured by each Interconnected Entity (the “Insuring 
Interconnected Entity”) shall include each other Interconnection Party (the “Insured 
Interconnection Party”), and its respective officers, agents and employees as additional insureds, 
and as applicable each other Construction Party (“Insured Construction Party”) its officers, 
agents and employees as additional insureds, providing all standard coverages and covering 
liability of the Insured Interconnection Party, and as applicable Insured Construction Party 
arising out of bodily injury and/or property damage (including loss of use) in any way connected 
with the operations, performance, or lack of performance under this Generation Interconnection 
Agreement. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 13 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
 
13.3 Other Required Terms:   
 
The above-mentioned insurance policies (except workers’ compensation) shall provide the 
following: 
 
 (a) Each policy shall contain provisions that specify that it is primary and non-
contributory for any liability arising out of that party’s negligence, and shall apply to such extent 
without consideration for other policies separately carried and shall state that each insured is 
provided coverage as though a separate policy had been issued to each, except the insurer’s 
liability shall not be increased beyond the amount for which the insurer would have been liable 
had only one insured been covered.  Each Insuring Interconnected Entity shall be responsible for 
its respective deductibles or retentions. 
 
 (b) If any coverage is written on a Claims First Made Basis, continuous coverage 
shall be maintained or an extended discovery period will be exercised for a period of not less 
than two years after termination of the Generation Interconnection Agreement. 
 
 (c) Provide for a waiver of all rights of subrogation which the Insuring 
Interconnected Entity’s insurance carrier might exercise against the Insured Interconnection 
Party. 
 
13.3A No Limitation of Liability:   
 
The requirements contained herein as to the types and limits of all insurance to be maintained by 
the Interconnected Entities are not intended to and shall not in any manner, limit or qualify the 
liabilities and obligations assumed by the Interconnection Parties under the Generation 
Interconnection Agreement. 
 
13.4 Self-Insurance:   
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Interconnected Entity may self-insure to meet the minimum 
insurance requirements of this section 13 of this Appendix 2 to the extent it maintains a self-
insurance program, provided that such Interconnected Entity’s senior secured debt is rated at 
investment grade or better by Standard & Poor’s and its self-insurance program meets the 
minimum insurance requirements of this section 13.  For any period of time that an 
Interconnected Entity’s senior secured debt is unrated by Standard & Poor’s or is rated at less 
than investment grade by Standard & Poor’s, such Party shall comply with the insurance 
requirements applicable to it under this section 13.  In the event that an Interconnected Entity is 
permitted to self-insure pursuant to this section, it shall notify the other Interconnection Parties 
that it meets the requirements to self-insure and that its self-insurance program meets the 
minimum insurance requirements in a manner consistent with that specified in section 13.5 of 
this Appendix 2. 
 
13.5 Notices; Certificates of Insurance:   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 13 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 4 
 
All policies of insurance shall provide for 30 days prior written notice of cancellation or material 
adverse change.  If the policies of insurance do not or cannot be endorsed to provide 30 days 
prior notice of cancellation or material adverse change, each Interconnected Entity shall provide 
the other Interconnected Entities with 30 days prior written notice of cancellation or material 
adverse change to any of the insurance required in this agreement.  Each Interconnected Entity 
shall provide the other with certificates of insurance prior to Initial Operation of the Generating 
Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility and thereafter at such time intervals as they shall 
mutually agree upon, provided that such interval shall not be less than one year.  All certificates 
of insurance shall indicate that the certificate holder is included as an additional insured under 
the Commercial General Liability, Business/Commercial Automobile Liability and Excess 
and/or Umbrella Liability coverages, and that this insurance is primary with a waiver of 
subrogation included in favor of the other Interconnected Entities. 
 
In the event the construction activities pursuant to Schedule L are required, the following 
provisions will apply, in addition to the provisions set forth above:  Prior to the commencement 
of work pursuant to Schedule L, the Constructing Entities agree to furnish each other with 
certificates of insurance evidencing the insurance coverage obtained in accordance with section 
13.1 of this Appendix 2. 
 
13.6 Subcontractor Insurance:   
 
In accord with Good Utility Practice, each Interconnected Entity shall require each of its 
subcontractors to maintain and provide evidence of insurance coverage of types, and in amounts, 
commensurate with the risks associated with the services provided by the subcontractor. Bonding 
of contractors or subcontractors shall be at the hiring Interconnected Entity’s discretion, but 
regardless of bonding, the hiring principal shall be responsible for the performance or non-
performance of any contractor or subcontractor it hires. 
 
13.7 Reporting Incidents: 
 
The Interconnection Parties shall report to each other in writing as soon as practical all accidents 
or occurrences resulting in injuries to any person, including death, and any property damage 
arising out of the Generation Interconnection Agreement. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 14 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
14 Indemnity 
 
14.1 Indemnity:   
 
Each Interconnection Party shall indemnify and hold harmless the other Interconnection Parties, 
and the other Interconnection Parties’ officers, shareholders, stakeholders, members, managers, 
representatives, directors, agents and employees, and Affiliates, from and against any and all 
loss, liability, damage, cost or expense to third parties, including damage and liability for bodily 
injury to or death of persons, or damage to property or persons (including reasonable attorneys’ 
fees and expenses, litigation costs, consultant fees, investigation fees, sums paid in settlements of 
claims, penalties or fines imposed under Applicable Laws and Regulations, and any such fees 
and expenses incurred in enforcing this indemnity or collecting any sums due hereunder) 
(collectively, “Loss”) to the extent arising out of, in connection with, or resulting from (i) the 
indemnifying Interconnection Party’s breach of any of the representations or warranties made in, 
or failure of the indemnifying Interconnection Party or any of its subcontractors to perform any 
of its obligations under, this Generation Interconnection Agreement (including Appendix 2), or 
(ii) the negligence or willful misconduct of the indemnifying Interconnection Party or its 
contractors; provided, however, that no Interconnection Party shall have any indemnification 
obligations under this section 14.1 in respect of any Loss to the extent the Loss results from the 
negligence or willful misconduct of the Interconnection Party seeking indemnity. 
 
14.2 Indemnity Procedures:   
 
Promptly after receipt by a Person entitled to indemnity (“Indemnified Person”) of any claim or 
notice of the commencement of any action or administrative or legal proceeding or investigation 
as to which the indemnity provided for in section 14.1 may apply, the Indemnified Person shall 
notify the indemnifying Interconnection Party of such fact.  Any failure of or delay in such 
notification shall not affect an Interconnection Party’s indemnification obligation unless such 
failure or delay is materially prejudicial to the indemnifying Interconnection Party.  The 
Indemnified Person shall cooperate with the indemnifying Interconnection Party with respect to 
the matter for which indemnification is claimed.  The indemnifying Interconnection Party shall 
have the right to assume the defense thereof with counsel designated by such indemnifying 
Interconnection Party and reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person.  If the defendants in 
any such action include one or more Indemnified Persons and the indemnifying Interconnection 
Party and if the Indemnified Person reasonably concludes that there may be legal defenses 
available to it and/or other Indemnified Persons which are different from or additional to those 
available to the indemnifying Interconnection Party, the Indemnified Person shall have the right 
to select separate counsel to assert such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense 
of such action on its own behalf.  In such instances, the indemnifying Interconnection Party shall 
only be required to pay the fees and expenses of one additional attorney to represent an 
Indemnified Person or Indemnified Persons having such differing or additional legal defenses.  
The Indemnified Person shall be entitled, at its expense, to participate in any action, suit or 
proceeding, the defense of which has been assumed by the indemnifying Interconnection Party.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the indemnifying Interconnection Party (i) shall not be entitled to 
assume and control the defense of any such action, suit or proceedings if and to the extent that, in 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 14 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
the opinion of the Indemnified Person and its counsel, such action, suit or proceeding involves 
the potential imposition of criminal liability on the Indemnified Person, or there exists a conflict 
or adversity of interest between the Indemnified Person and the indemnifying Interconnection 
Party, in such event the indemnifying Interconnection Party shall pay the reasonable expenses of 
the Indemnified Person, and (ii) shall not settle or consent to the entry of any judgment in any 
action, suit or proceeding without the consent of the Indemnified Person, which shall not be 
unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. 
 
14.3 Indemnified Person:   
 
If an Indemnified Person is entitled to indemnification under this section 14 as a result of a claim 
by a third party, and the indemnifying Interconnection Party fails, after notice and reasonable 
opportunity to proceed under section 14.2 of this Appendix 2, to assume the defense of such 
claim, such Indemnified Person may at the expense of the indemnifying Interconnection Party 
contest, settle or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, or pay in full, such claim. 
 
14.4 Amount Owing:   
 
If an indemnifying Interconnection Party is obligated to indemnify and hold any Indemnified 
Person harmless under this section 14, the amount owing to the Indemnified Person shall be the 
amount of such Indemnified Person’s actual Loss, net of any insurance or other recovery. 
 
14.5 Limitation on Damages:  
 
Except as otherwise provided in this section 14, the liability of an Interconnection Party under 
this Appendix 2 shall be limited to direct actual damages, and all other damages at law are 
waived. Under no circumstances shall any Interconnection Party or its Affiliates, directors, 
officers, employees and agents, or any of them, be liable to another Interconnection Party, 
whether in tort, contract or other basis in law or equity for any special, indirect punitive, 
exemplary or consequential damages, including lost profits.  The limitations on damages 
specified in this section 14.5 are without regard to the cause or causes related thereto, including 
the negligence of any Interconnection Party, whether such negligence be sole, joint or 
concurrent, or active or passive.  This limitation on damages shall not affect any Interconnection 
Party’s rights to obtain equitable relief as otherwise provided in this Appendix 2.  The provisions 
of this section 14.5 shall survive the termination or expiration of the Generation Interconnection 
Agreement. 
 
14.6 Limitation of Liability in Event of Breach:   
 
An Interconnection Party (“Breaching Party”) shall have no liability hereunder to the other 
Interconnection Parties, and the other Interconnection Parties hereby release the Breaching Party, 
for all claims or damages that either of them incurs that are associated with any interruption in 
the availability of the Generating Facility or Merchant Transmission Facility, Interconnection 
Facilities and Transmission Owner Upgrades, Transmission System or Interconnection Service 
or damages to an Interconnection Party’s facilities, except to the extent such interruption or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 14 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
damage is caused by the Breaching Party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct in the 
performance of its obligations under this Generation Interconnection Agreement (including 
Appendix 2). 
 
14.7 Limited Liability in Emergency Conditions:   
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Tariff or the Operating Agreement, no Interconnection Party 
shall be liable to any other Interconnection Party for any action that it takes in responding to an 
Emergency Condition, so long as such action is made in good faith, is consistent with Good 
Utility Practice and is not contrary to the directives of the Transmission Provider or of the 
Transmission Owner with respect to such Emergency Condition.  Notwithstanding the above, 
Project Developer shall be liable in the event that it fails to comply with any instructions of 
Transmission Provider or the Transmission Owner related to an Emergency Condition. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 15 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
15 Breach, Cure and Default 
 
15.1 Breach:   
 
A Breach of this Generation Interconnection Agreement shall include: 
 
 (a) The failure to pay any amount when due; 
 
 (b) The failure to comply with any material term or condition of this Appendix 2 or 
of the other portions of the Generation Interconnection Agreement or any attachments or 
Schedule hereto, including but not limited to any material breach of a representation, warranty or 
covenant (other than in subsections (a) and (c)-(e) of this section) made in this Appendix 2 or 
any provisions of Schedule L; 
 
 (c) Assignment of the Generation Interconnection Agreement in a manner 
inconsistent with its terms; 
 
 (d) Failure of an Interconnection Party to provide access rights, or an Interconnection 
Party's attempt to revoke or terminate access rights, that are provided under this Appendix 2; or 
 
 (e) Failure of an Interconnection Party to provide information or data required to be 
determined under this Appendix 2 to another Interconnection Party for such other 
Interconnection Party to satisfy its obligations under this Appendix 2. 
 
15.2 Continued Operation:   
 
In the event of a Breach or Default by either Interconnected Entity, and subject to termination of 
the Generation Interconnection Agreement under section 16 of this Appendix 2, the 
Interconnected Entities shall continue to operate and maintain, as applicable, such DC power 
systems, protection and Metering Equipment, telemetering equipment, SCADA equipment, 
transformers, Secondary Systems, communications equipment, building facilities, software, 
documentation, structural components, and other facilities and appurtenances that are reasonably 
necessary for Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner to operate and maintain the 
Transmission System and the Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities and Transmission 
Owner Upgrades and for Project Developer to operate and maintain the Generating Facility or 
Merchant Transmission Facility and the Project Developer Interconnection Facilities, in a safe 
and reliable manner. 
 
15.3 Notice of Breach:   
 
An Interconnection Party not in Breach shall give written notice of an event of Breach to the 
Breaching Party, to Transmission Provider and to other persons that the Breaching Party 
identifies in writing to the other Interconnection Party in advance.  Such notice shall set forth, in 
reasonable detail, the nature of the Breach, and where known and applicable, the steps necessary 
to cure such Breach.  In the event of a Breach by Project Developer, Transmission Provider or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 15 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 2 
the Transmission Owner agree to provide notice of such Breach and in the same manner as its 
notice to Project Developer, to any Project Finance Entity provided that the Project Developer 
has provided the notifying Interconnection Party with notice of an assignment to such Project 
Finance Entity(ies) and identifies such Project Finance Entity(ies) as contacts for notice purposes 
pursuant to section 21 of this Appendix 2. 
 
15.4 Cure and Default:   
 
An Interconnection Party that commits a Breach and does not take steps to cure the Breach 
pursuant to this section 15.4 is automatically in Default of this Appendix 2 and of the Generation 
Interconnection Agreement, and its project and this Agreement shall be deemed terminated and 
withdrawn.  Transmission Provider shall take all necessary steps to effectuate this termination, 
including submitting the necessary filings with FERC. 
 
15.4.1 Cure of Breach:   
 
15.4.1.1 Except for the event of Breach set forth in section 15.1(a) above, the Breaching 
Interconnection Party (a) may cure the Breach within 30 days of the time the Non-
Breaching Party sends such notice; or (b) if the Breach cannot be cured within 30 
days, may commence in good faith all steps that are reasonable and appropriate to 
cure the Breach within such 30 day time period and thereafter diligently pursue 
such action to completion pursuant to a plan to cure, which shall be developed 
and agreed to in writing by the Interconnection Parties.  Such agreement shall not 
be unreasonably withheld.   
 
15.4.1.2 In an event of Breach set forth in section 15.1(a), the Breaching Interconnection 
Party shall cure the Breach within five days from the receipt of notice of the 
Breach.  If the Breaching Interconnection Party is the Project Developer, and the 
Project Developer fails to pay an amount due within five days from the receipt of 
notice of the Breach, Transmission Provider may use Security to cure such 
Breach.  If Transmission Provider uses Security to cure such Breach, Project 
Developer shall be in automatic Default and its project and this Agreement shall 
be deemed terminated and withdrawn. 
 
15.5 Right to Compel Performance:   
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the occurrence of a Default, a non-Defaulting 
Interconnection Party shall be entitled to exercise such other rights and remedies as it may have 
in equity or at law.  Subject to section 20.1, no remedy conferred by any provision of this 
Appendix 2 is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy and each and every remedy shall be 
cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter 
existing at law or in equity or by statute or otherwise.  The election of any one or more remedies 
shall not constitute a waiver of the right to pursue other available remedies. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart B FORM OF 
GIA COMBINED WITH CSA --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendices and Schedules --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appendix 2 Standard 
Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.B GIA Appx 2 Section 16 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
16 Termination 
 
16.1 Termination of the Generation Interconnection Agreement:   
 
This Generation Interconnection Agreement and Interconnection Service under this Generation 
Interconnection Agreement may be terminated by the following means: 
 
16.1.1 By Mutual Consent:   
 