[PART I-COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS - Part 3 of 5]

“Merchant Transmission Provider” shall mean an Interconnection Customer that (1) owns,  
controls, or controls the rights to use the transmission capability of, Merchant D.C. Transmission 
Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities that connect the 
Transmission System with another control area, (2) has elected to receive Transmission Injection 
Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights associated with such facility pursuant to Tariff, Part 
IV, section 36, and (3) makes (or will make) the transmission capability of such facilities 
available for use by third parties under terms and conditions approved by the Commission and 
stated in the Tariff, consistent with Tariff, section 38. 
 
Metering Equipment: 
 
“Metering Equipment” shall mean all metering equipment installed at the metering points 
designated in the appropriate appendix to an Interconnection Service Agreement. 
 
Minimum Annual Resource Requirement: 
 
“Minimum Annual Resource Requirement” shall mean, for Delivery Years through May 31, 
2017,   the minimum amount of capacity that PJM will seek to procure from Annual Resources 
for the PJM Region and for each Locational Deliverability Area for which the Office of the 
Interconnection is required under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.10(a) to establish a separate 
VRR Curve for such Delivery Year.  For the PJM Region, the Minimum Annual Resource 
Requirement shall be equal to the RTO Reliability Requirement minus [the Sub-Annual 
Resource Reliability Target for the RTO in Unforced Capacity].  For an LDA, the Minimum 
Annual Resource Requirement shall be equal to the LDA Reliability Requirement minus [the 
LDA CETL] minus [the Sub-Annual Resource Reliability Target for such LDA in Unforced 
Capacity]. The LDA CETL may be adjusted pro rata for the amount of load served under the 
FRR Alternative. 
 
Minimum Down Time: 
 
For all generating units that are not combined cycle units, “Minimum Down Time” shall mean 
the minimum number of hours under normal operating conditions between unit shutdown and 
unit startup, calculated as the shortest time difference between the unit’s generator breaker 
opening and after the unit’s generator breaker closure, which is typically indicated by 
telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero. For combined cycle 
units, “Minimum Down Time” shall mean the minimum number of hours between the last 
generator breaker opening and after first combustion turbine generator breaker closure, which is 
typically indicated by telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero. 
 
Minimum Extended Summer Resource Requirement: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 11 
“Minimum Extended Summer Resource Requirement” shall mean, for Delivery Years through 
May 31, 2017, the minimum amount of capacity that PJM will seek to procure from Extended 
Summer Demand Resources and Annual Resources for the PJM Region and for each Locational 
Deliverability Area for which the Office of the Interconnection is required under Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.10(a) to establish a separate VRR Curve for such Delivery Year.  For 
the PJM Region, the Minimum Extended Summer Resource Requirement shall be equal to the 
RTO Reliability Requirement minus [the Limited Demand Resource Reliability Target for the 
PJM Region in Unforced Capacity].  For an LDA, the Minimum Extended Summer Resource 
Requirement shall be equal to the LDA Reliability Requirement minus [the LDA CETL] minus 
[the Limited Demand Resource Reliability Target for such LDA in Unforced Capacity].  The 
LDA CETL may be adjusted pro rata for the amount of load served under the FRR Alternative. 
 
Minimum Generation Emergency: 
 
“Minimum Generation Emergency” shall mean an Emergency declared by the Office of the 
Interconnection in which the Office of the Interconnection anticipates requesting one or more 
generating resources to operate at or below Normal Minimum Generation, in order to manage, 
alleviate, or end the Emergency. 
 
Minimum Participation Requirements: 
 
“Minimum Participation Requirements” shall mean a set of minimum training, risk management, 
communication and capital or collateral requirements required for Participants in the PJM 
Markets, as set forth herein and in the Form of Annual Certification set forth as Tariff, 
Attachment Q, Appendix 1.  Participants transacting in FTRs in certain circumstances will be 
required to demonstrate additional risk management procedures and controls as further set forth 
in the Annual Certification found in Tariff, Attachment Q, Appendix 1. 
 
Minimum Run Time: 
 
For all generating units that are not combined cycle units, “Minimum Run Time” shall mean the 
minimum number of hours a unit must run, in real-time operations, from the time after generator 
breaker closure, which is typically indicated by telemetered or aggregated State Estimator 
megawatts greater than zero, to the time of generator breaker opening, as measured by PJM's 
State Estimator. For combined cycle units, “Minimum Run Time” shall mean the time period 
after the first combustion turbine generator breaker closure, which is typically indicated by 
telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero, and the last generator 
breaker opening as measured by PJM’s State Estimator. 
 
MISO: 
 
“MISO” shall mean the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. or any successor 
thereto. 
 
Mixed Technology Facility: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 12 
“Mixed Technology Facility” shall mean a facility composed of distinct generation and/or 
electric storage technology types behind the same Point of Interconnection.  Co-Located 
Resources and Hybrid Resources form all or part of Mixed Technology Facilities. 
 
MOPR Floor Offer Price: 
 
“MOPR Floor Offer Price” shall mean a minimum offer price applicable to certain Market 
Seller’s Capacity Resources under certain conditions, as determined in accordance with Tariff, 
Attachment DD, sections 5.14(h), 5.14(h-1), and 5.14(h-2). 
 
Multi-Driver Project: 
 
“Multi-Driver Project” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Native Load Customers: 
 
“Native Load Customers” shall mean the wholesale and retail power customers of a 
Transmission Owner on whose behalf the Transmission Owner, by statute, franchise, regulatory 
requirement, or contract, has undertaken an obligation to construct and operate the Transmission 
Owner’s system to meet the reliable electric needs of such customers. 
 
Near-Term Transmission Service: 
 
“Near-Term Transmission Service” shall mean Transmission Service which ends not more than 
10 days after the Transmission Service request date.  When the description of obligations below 
refers to either a request for information about the availability of potential Transmission Service 
(including, but not limited to, a request for ATC), or to the posting of ATC or other information 
related to potential service, the date that the information is requested or posted will serve as the 
Transmission Service request date.  “Near-Term Transmission Service” includes any Point-To-
Point Transmission Service and Network Integration Transmission Service where the start and 
end date of the designation or request is within the next 10 days. 
 
NERC: 
 
“NERC” shall mean the North American Electric Reliability Corporation or any successor 
thereto. 
 
NERC Interchange Distribution Calculator: 
 
“NERC Interchange Distribution Calculator” shall mean the NERC mechanism that is in effect 
and being used to calculate the distribution of energy, over specific transmission interfaces, from 
energy transactions. 
 
Net Benefits Test:  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 13 
“Net Benefits Test” shall mean a calculation to determine whether the benefits of a reduction in 
price resulting from the dispatch of Economic Load Response exceeds the cost to other loads 
resulting from the billing unit effects of the load reduction, as specified in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 3.3A.4 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
3.3A.4. 
 
Net Cost of New Entry:   
 
“Net Cost of New Entry” shall mean the Cost of New Entry minus the Net Energy and Ancillary 
Service Revenue Offset. 
 
Net Obligation: 
  
“Net Obligation” shall mean the amount owed to PJMSettlement and PJM for purchases from the 
PJM Markets, Transmission Service, (under Tariff, Parts II and III , and other services pursuant 
to the Agreements, after applying a deduction for amounts owed to a Participant by 
PJMSettlement as it pertains to monthly market activity and services.  Should other markets be 
formed such that Participants may incur future Obligations in those markets, then the aggregate 
amount of those Obligations will also be added to the Net Obligation. 
 
Net Sell Position: 
  
“Net Sell Position” shall mean the amount of Net Obligation when Net Obligation is negative. 
 
Network Customer: 
 
“Network Customer” shall mean an entity receiving transmission service pursuant to the terms of 
the Transmission Provider’s Network Integration Transmission Service under Tariff, Part III. 
 
Network External Designated Transmission Service: 
 
“Network External Designated Transmission Service” shall have the meaning set forth in 
Reliability Assurance Agreement, Article I. 
 
Network Integration Transmission Service: 
 
“Network Integration Transmission Service” shall mean the transmission service provided under 
Tariff, Part III. 
 
Network Load: 
 
“Network Load” shall mean the load that a Network Customer designates for Network 
Integration Transmission Service under Tariff, Part III.  The Network Customer’s Network Load 
shall include all load (including losses, Non-Dispatched Charging Energy, and Load Serving 
Charging Energy) served by the output of any Network Resources designated by the Network 
Customer.  A Network Customer may elect to designate less than its total load as Network Load 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 14 
but may not designate only part of the load at a discrete Point of Delivery.  Where an Eligible 
Customer has elected not to designate a particular load at discrete points of delivery as Network 
Load, the Eligible Customer is responsible for making separate arrangements under Tariff, Part 
II for any Point-To-Point Transmission Service that may be necessary for such non-designated 
load.  Network Load shall not include Dispatched Charging Energy. 
 
Network Operating Agreement: 
 
“Network Operating Agreement” shall mean an executed agreement that contains the terms and 
conditions under which the Network Customer shall operate its facilities and the technical and 
operational matters associated with the implementation of Network Integration Transmission 
Service under Tariff, Part III. 
 
Network Operating Committee: 
 
“Network Operating Committee” shall mean a group made up of representatives from the 
Network Customer(s) and the Transmission Provider established to coordinate operating criteria 
and other technical considerations required for implementation of Network Integration 
Transmission Service under Tariff, Part III.  
 
Network Resource: 
 
“Network Resource” shall mean any designated generating resource owned, purchased, or leased 
by a Network Customer under the Network Integration Transmission Service Tariff.  Network 
Resources do not include any resource, or any portion thereof, that is committed for sale to third 
parties or otherwise cannot be called upon to meet the Network Customer’s Network Load on a 
non-interruptible basis, except for purposes of fulfilling obligations under a reserve sharing 
program. 
 
Network Service User: 
 
“Network Service User” shall mean an entity using Network Transmission Service. 
 
Network Transmission Service: 
 
“Network Transmission Service” shall mean transmission service provided pursuant to the rates, 
terms and conditions set forth in Tariff, Part III, or transmission service comparable to such 
service that is provided to a Load Serving Entity that is also a Transmission Owner. 
 
Network Upgrades: 
 
“Network Upgrades” shall mean modifications or additions to transmission-related facilities that 
are integrated with and support the Transmission Provider’s overall Transmission System for the 
general benefit of all users of such Transmission System. Network Upgrades shall include: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 15 
 (i) Direct Connection Network Upgrades which are Network Upgrades that are not part 
of an Affected System; only serve the Customer Interconnection Facility; and have no impact or 
potential impact on the Transmission System until the final tie-in is complete.  Both 
Transmission Provider and Interconnection Customer must agree as to what constitutes Direct 
Connection Network Upgrades and identify them in the Interconnection Construction Service 
Agreement, Schedule D.  If the Transmission Provider and Interconnection Customer disagree 
about whether a particular Network Upgrade is a Direct Connection Network Upgrade, the 
Transmission Provider must provide the Interconnection Customer a written technical 
explanation outlining why the Transmission Provider does not consider the Network Upgrade to 
be a Direcct Connection Network Upgrade within 15 days of its determination. 
 
 (ii) Non-Direct Connection Network Upgrades which are parallel flow Network 
Upgrades that are not Direct Connection Network Upgrades. 
 
Neutral Party: 
 
“Neutral Party” shall have the meaning provided in Tariff, Part I, section 9.3(v). 
 
New Entry Capacity Resource with State Subsidy: 
 
“New Entry Capacity Resource with State Subsidy” shall mean (1) starting with the 2022/2023 
Delivery Year, the MWs (in installed capacity) comprising a Capacity Resource with State 
Subsidy that have not cleared in an RPM Auction pursuant to its Sell Offer at or above its 
resource-specific MOPR Floor Offer Price or the applicable default New Entry MOPR Floor 
Offer Price or (2) starting with the Base Residual Auction for the 2022/2023 Delivery Year, any 
of those MWs (in installed capacity) comprising a Capacity Resource with State Subsidy that 
was not included in an FRR Capacity Plan at the time of the Base Residual Auction or the 
subject of a Sell Offer in a Base Residual Auction occurring for a Delivery Year after it last 
cleared an RPM Auction and since then has yet to clear an RPM Auction pursuant to its Sell 
Offer at or above its resource-specific MOPR Floor Offer Price or the applicable default New 
Entry MOPR Floor Offer Price.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Capacity Resource that 
previously cleared an RPM Auction before it became entitled to receive a State Subsidy shall not 
be deemed a New Entry Capacity Resource, unless, starting with the Base Residual Auction for 
the 2022/2023 Delivery Year, the Capacity Resource with State Subsidy was not the subject of a 
Sell Offer in a Base Residual Auction or included in an FRR Capacity Plan at the time of the 
Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year after it last cleared an RPM Auction. 
 
New PJM Zone(s): 
 
“New PJM Zone(s)” shall mean the Zone included in the Tariff, along with applicable Schedules 
and Attachments, for Commonwealth Edison Company, The Dayton Power and Light Company 
and the AEP East Operating Companies (Appalachian Power Company, Columbus Southern 
Power Company, Indiana Michigan Power Company, Kentucky Power Company, Kingsport 
Power Company, Ohio Power Company and Wheeling Power Company). 
 
New Service Customers: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 16 
 
“New Service Customers” shall mean all customers that submit an Interconnection Request, a 
Completed Application, or an Upgrade Request that is pending in the New Services Queue. 
 
New Service Request: 
 
“New Service Request” shall mean an Interconnection Request, a Completed Application, or an 
Upgrade Request. 
 
New Services Queue: 
 
“New Services Queue” shall mean all Interconnection Requests, Completed Applications, and 
Upgrade Requests that are received within each six-month period ending on March 31 and 
September 30 of each year shall collectively comprise a New Services Queue. 
 
New York ISO or NYISO: 
 
“New York ISO” or “NYISO” shall mean the New York Independent System Operator, Inc. or 
any successor thereto. 
 
Nodal Reference Price: 
  
The “Nodal Reference Price” at each location shall mean the 97th percentile price differential 
between day-ahead and real-time prices experienced over the corresponding two-month 
reference period in the prior calendar year.   Reference periods will be Jan-Feb, Mar-Apr, May-
Jun, Jul-Aug, Sept-Oct, Nov-Dec.  For any given current-year month, the reference period 
months will be the set of two months in the prior calendar year that include the month 
corresponding to the current month.  For example, July and August 2003 would each use July-
August 2002 as their reference period. 
 
No-load Cost:  
 
“No-load Cost” shall mean the hourly cost required to theoretically operate a synchronized unit 
at zero MW. It consists primarily of the cost of fuel, as determined by the unit’s no load heat 
(adjusted by the performance factor) times the fuel cost. It also includes operating costs, 
Maintenance Adders, and emissions allowances. 
 
Nominal Rated Capability: 
 
“Nominal Rated Capability” shall mean the nominal maximum rated capability in megawatts of 
a Transmission Interconnection Customer’s Customer Facility or the nominal increase in 
transmission capability in megawatts of the Transmission System resulting from the 
interconnection or addition of a Transmission Interconnection Customer’s Customer Facility, as 
determined in accordance with pertinent Applicable Standards and specified in the 
Interconnection Service Agreement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 17 
Nominated Demand Resource Value: 
 
“Nominated Demand Resource Value” shall mean the amount of load reduction that a Demand 
Resource commits to provide either through direct load control, firm service level or guaranteed 
load drop programs.  For existing Demand Resources, the maximum Nominated Demand 
Resource Value is limited, in accordance with the PJM Manuals, to the value appropriate for the 
method by which the load reduction would be accomplished, at the time the Base Residual 
Auction or Incremental Auction is being conducted. 
 
Nominated Energy Efficiency Value:  
 
“Nominated Energy Efficiency Value” shall mean the amount of load reduction that an Energy 
Efficiency Resource commits to provide through installation of more efficient devices or 
equipment or implementation of more efficient processes or systems. 
 
Non-Dispatched Charging Energy:  
 
“Non-Dispatched Charging Energy” shall mean all Direct Charging Energy that an Energy 
Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource receives from the electric 
grid that is not otherwise Dispatched Charging Energy. 
 
Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service: 
 
“Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service” shall mean Point-To-Point Transmission 
Service under the Tariff that is reserved and scheduled on an as-available basis and is subject to 
Curtailment or Interruption as set forth in Tariff, Part II, section 14.7.  Non-Firm Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service is available on a stand-alone basis for periods ranging from one hour to 
one month. 
 
Non-Firm Sale: 
 
“Non-Firm Sale” shall mean an energy sale for which receipt or delivery may be interrupted for 
any reason or no reason, without liability on the part of either the buyer or seller. 
 
Non-Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights: 
 
“No-Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights” shall mean the rights to schedule energy 
withdrawals from a specified point on the Transmission System. Non-Firm Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights may be awarded only to a Merchant D.C. Transmission Facility that connects 
the Transmission System to another control area. Withdrawals scheduled using Non-Firm 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights have rights similar to those under Non-Firm Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service. 
 
Non-Performance Charge: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 18 
“Non-Performance Charge” shall mean the charge applicable to Capacity Performance 
Resources as defined in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 10A(e). 
 
Nonincumbent Developer: 
 
“Nonincumbent Developer” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Non-Regulatory Opportunity Cost: 
 “Non-Regulatory Opportunity Cost” shall mean the difference between (a) the forecasted cost to 
operate a specific generating unit when the unit only has a limited number of starts or available 
run hours resulting from (i) the physical equipment limitations of the unit, for up to one year, due 
to original equipment manufacturer recommendations or insurance carrier restrictions, (ii) a fuel 
supply limitation, for up to one year, resulting from an event of Catastrophic Force Majeure; and,  
(b) the forecasted future Locational Marginal Price at which the generating unit could run while 
not violating such limitations.  Non-Regulatory Opportunity Cost therefore is the value 
associated with a specific generating unit’s lost opportunity to produce energy during a higher 
valued period of time occurring within the same period of time in which the unit is bound by the 
referenced restrictions, and is reflected in the rules set forth in PJM Manual 15.  Non-Regulatory 
Opportunity Costs shall be limited to those resources which are specifically delineated in 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 2.  
 
Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation: 
 
“Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation” shall mean Behind the Meter Generation that is used 
by municipal electric systems, electric cooperatives, or electric distribution companies to serve 
load. 
 
Non-Synchronized Reserve: 
 
“Non-Synchronized Reserve” shall mean the reserve capability of non-emergency generation 
resources that can be converted fully into energy within ten minutes of a request from the Office 
of the Interconnection dispatcher, and is provided by equipment that is not electrically 
synchronized to the Transmission System. 
 
Non-Synchronized Reserve Event: 
 
“Non-Synchronized Reserve Event” shall mean a request from the Office of the Interconnection 
to generation resources able and assigned to provide Non-Synchronized Reserve in one or more 
specified Reserve Zones or Reserve Sub-zones, within ten minutes to increase the energy output 
by the amount of assigned Non-Synchronized Reserve capability. 
 
Non-Variable Loads: 
“Non-Variable Loads” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 1.5A.6, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.5A.6. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 19 
Non-Zone Network Load: 
 
“Non-Zone Network Load shall mean Network Load that is located outside of the PJM Region. 
 
Normal Maximum Generation: 
 
“Normal Maximum Generation” shall mean the highest output level of a generating resource 
under normal operating conditions. 
 
Normal Minimum Generation: 
 
“Normal Minimum Generation” shall mean the lowest output level of a generating resource 
under normal operating conditions. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 1 
Definitions – O – P - Q 
 
Obligation: 
  
“Obligation” shall mean all amounts owed to PJMSettlement for purchases from the PJM 
Markets, Transmission Service, (under both Tariff, Part II and Tariff, Part III), and other services 
or obligations pursuant to the Agreements.  In addition, aggregate amounts that will be owed to 
PJMSettlement in the future for capacity purchases within the PJM capacity markets will be 
added to this figure.  Should other markets be formed such that Participants may incur future 
Obligations in those markets, then the aggregate amount of those Obligations will also be added 
to the Net Obligation. 
 
Offer Data: 
 
“Offer Data” shall mean the scheduling, operations planning, dispatch, new resource, and other 
data and information necessary to schedule and dispatch generation resources and Demand 
Resource(s) for the provision of energy and other services and the maintenance of the reliability 
and security of the Transmission System in the PJM Region, and specified for submission to the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market for such purposes by the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
Office of the Interconnection: 
 
“Office of the Interconnection” shall mean the employees and agents of PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. subject to the supervision and oversight of the PJM Board, acting pursuant to the 
Operating Agreement. 
 
Office of the Interconnection Control Center: 
 
“Office of the Interconnection Control Center” shall mean the equipment, facilities and 
personnel used by the Office of the Interconnection to coordinate and direct the operation of the 
PJM Region and to administer the PJM Interchange Energy Market, including facilities and 
equipment used to communicate and coordinate with the Market Participants in connection with 
transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market or the operation of the PJM Region. 
 
On-Site Generators: 
 
“On-Site Generators” shall mean generation facilities (including Behind The Meter Generation) 
that (i) are not Capacity Resources, (ii) are not injecting into the grid, (iii) are either 
synchronized or non-synchronized to the Transmission System, and (iv) can be used to reduce 
demand for the purpose of participating in the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) or PJM Open Access Same-Time 
Information System: 
 
“Open Access Same-Time Information System,” “PJM Open Access Same-Time Information 
System” or “OASIS” shall mean the electronic communication and information system and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 2 
standards of conduct contained in Part 37 and Part 38 of the Commission’s regulations and all 
additional requirements implemented by subsequent Commission orders dealing with OASIS for 
the collection and dissemination of information about transmission services in the PJM Region, 
established and operated by the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with FERC 
standards and requirements. 
 
Open-Loop Hybrid Resource: 
 
“Open-Loop Hybrid Resource” shall mean a Hybrid Resource with a storage component that 
operates by charging its storage component from the grid. 
 
Operating Agreement of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Operating Agreement or PJM 
Operating Agreement: 
 
“Operating Agreement of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.,”  “Operating Agreement” or “PJM 
Operating Agreement” shall mean the Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. dated as of April 1, 1997 and as amended and restated as of June 2, 
1997, including all Schedules, Exhibits, Appendices, addenda or supplements hereto, as amended 
from time to time thereafter, among the Members of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., on file 
with the Commission. 
 
Operating Day: 
 
“Operating Day” shall mean the daily 24 hour period beginning at midnight for which 
transactions on the PJM Interchange Energy Market are scheduled. 
 
Operating Margin: 
 
“Operating Margin” shall mean the incremental adjustments, measured in megawatts, required in 
PJM Region operations in order to accommodate, on a first contingency basis, an operating 
contingency in the PJM Region resulting from operations in an interconnected Control Area.  
Such adjustments may result in constraints causing Transmission Congestion Charges, or may 
result in Ancillary Services charges pursuant to the PJM Tariff. 
 
Operating Margin Customer: 
 
“Operating Margin Customer” shall mean a Control Area purchasing Operating Margin pursuant 
to an agreement between such other Control Area and the LLC. 
 
Operating Reserve Demand Curve: 
 
“Operating Reserve Demand Curve” shall mean a curve with prices on the y-axis and megawatts 
on the x-axis, which defines the relationship between each incremental megawatt of reserves that 
can be used to meet a given reserve requirement. 
 
Operationally Deliverable: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 3 
 
“Operationally Deliverable” shall mean, as determined by the Office of the Interconnection, that 
there are no operational conditions, arrangements or limitations experienced or required that 
threaten, impair or degrade effectuation or maintenance of deliverability of capacity or energy 
from the external Generation Capacity Resource to loads in the PJM Region in a manner 
comparable to the deliverability of capacity or energy to such loads from Generation Capacity 
Resources located inside the metered boundaries of the PJM Region, including, without 
limitation, an identified need by an external Balancing Authority Area for a remedial action 
scheme or manual generation trip protocol, transmission facility switching arrangements  that 
would have the effect of radializing load, or excessive or unacceptable frequency of regional 
reliability limit violations or (outside an interregional agreed congestion management process) of 
local reliability dispatch instructions and commitments. 
 
Opportunity Cost: 
 
“Opportunity Cost” shall mean a component of the Market Seller Offer Cap calculated in 
accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6. 
 
OPSI Advisory Committee: 
 
“OPSI Advisory Committee” shall mean the committee established under Tariff, Attachment M, 
section III.G. 
 
Option to Build: 
 
“Option to Build” shall mean the option of the New Service Customer to build certain Customer-
Funded Upgrades, as set forth in, and subject to the terms of, the Construction Service 
Agreement. 
 
Optional Interconnection Study: 
 
“Optional Interconnection Study” shall mean a sensitivity analysis of an Interconnection Request 
based on assumptions specified by the Interconnection Customer in the Optional Interconnection 
Study Agreement. 
 
Optional Interconnection Study Agreement: 
 
“Optional Interconnection Study Agreement” shall mean the form of agreement for preparation 
of an Optional Interconnection Study, as set forth in Tariff, Attachment N-3. 
 
Part I: 
 
“Part I” shall mean the Tariff Definitions and Common Service Provisions contained in Tariff, 
Part I, sections 1 through 12A. 
 
Part II: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 4 
 
“Part II” shall mean Tariff, Part II, sections 13 through 27A pertaining to Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service in conjunction with the applicable Common Service Provisions of Tariff, 
Part I and appropriate Schedules and Attachments. 
 
Part III: 
 
“Part III” shall mean Tariff, Part III, sections 28 through 35 pertaining to Network Integration 
Transmission Service in conjunction with the applicable Common Service Provisions of Tariff, 
Part I and appropriate Schedules and Attachments. 
 
Part IV: 
 
“Part IV” shall mean Tariff, Part IV, sections 36 through 112C pertaining to generation or 
merchant transmission interconnection to the Transmission System in conjunction with the 
applicable Common Service Provisions of Tariff, Part I and appropriate Schedules and 
Attachments. 
 
Part V: 
 
“Part V” shall mean Tariff, Part V, sections 113 through 122 pertaining to the deactivation of 
generating units in conjunction with the applicable Common Service Provisions of Tariff, Part I 
and appropriate Schedules and Attachments. 
 
Part VI: 
 
“Part VI” shall mean Tariff, Part VI, sections 200 through 237 pertaining to the queuing, study, 
and agreements relating to New Service Requests, and the rights associated with Customer-
Funded Upgrades in conjunction with the applicable Common Service Provisions of Tariff, Part I 
and appropriate Schedules and Attachments. 
 
Participant: 
  
“Participant” shall mean a Market Participant and/or Transmission Customer and/or Applicant 
requesting to be an active Market Participant and/or Transmission Customer. 
 
Parties: 
 
“Parties” shall mean the Transmission Provider, as administrator of the Tariff, and the 
Transmission Customer receiving service under the Tariff.  PJMSettlement shall be the 
Counterparty to Transmission Customers. 
 
Peak-Hour Dispatch: 
 
“Peak-Hour Dispatch” shall mean, for purposes of calculating the Energy and Ancillary Services 
Revenue Offset under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5, an assumption, as more fully set forth in 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 5 
the PJM Manuals, that the Reference Resource is committed in the Day-ahead Energy Market in 
four distinct blocks of four hours of continuous output for each block from the peak-hour period 
beginning with the hour ending 0800 EPT through to the hour ending 2300 EPT for any day 
when the average day-ahead LMP for the area for which the Net Cost of New Entry is being 
determined is greater than, or equal to, the cost to generate (including the cost for a complete 
start and shutdown cycle), plus 10% of such costs only for the 2022/2023 Delivery Year, for at 
least two hours during each four-hour block, where such blocks shall be assumed to be  
committed independently; provided that, if there are not at least two economic hours in any given 
four-hour block, then the Reference Resource shall be assumed not to be committed for such 
block; and to the extent not committed in any such block in the Day-ahead Energy Market under 
the above conditions based on Day-Ahead LMPs, is dispatched in the Real-time Energy Market 
for such block if the Real-Time LMP is greater than or equal to the cost to generate, plus 10% of 
such costs only for the 2022/2023 Delivery Year, under the same conditions as described above 
for the Day-ahead Energy Market. 
 
Peak Market Activity:   
 
“Peak Market Activity” shall mean a measure of exposure for which credit is required, calculated 
in accordance with Tariff, Attachment Q, section VII.A.  
 
Peak Market Activity Shortfall: 
 
“Peak Market Activity Shortfall” shall mean, for any given week, the amount by which a 
Participant’s current Peak Market Activity exceeds such Participant’s Peak Market Activity 
credit requirement from the prior week. 
 
Peak Market Activity Surplus: 
 
“Peak Market Activity Surplus” shall mean, for any given week, the amount by which a 
Participant’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement from the prior week exceeds such 
Participant’s current Peak Market Activity. 
 
Peak Season: 
 
“Peak Season” shall mean the weeks containing the 24th through 36th Wednesdays of the 
calendar year.  Each such week shall begin on a Monday and end on the following Sunday, 
except for the week containing the 36th Wednesday, which shall end on the following Friday. 
 
Percentage Internal Resources Required: 
 
“Percentage Internal Resources Required” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Performance Assessment Interval: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 6 
“Performance Assessment Interval” shall mean each Real-time Settlement Interval for which an 
Emergency Action has been declared by the Office of the Interconnection, provided, however, 
that Performance Assessment Intervals for a Base Capacity Resource shall not include any 
intervals outside the calendar months of June through September. 
 
Permissible Technological Advancement: 
 
“Permissible Technological Advancement” shall mean a proposed technological change such as 
an advancement to turbines, inverters, plant supervisory controls or other similar advancements 
to the technology proposed in the Interconnection Request that is submitted to the Transmission 
Provider no later than the return of an executed Facilities Study Agreement (or, if a Facilities 
Study is not required, prior to the return of an executed Interconnection Service Agreement).  
Provided such change may not:  (i) increase the capability of the Generating Facility as specified 
in the original Interconnection Request; (ii) represent a different fuel type from the original 
Interconnection Request; or (iii) cause any material adverse impact(s) on the Transmission 
System with regard to short circuit capability limits, steady-state thermal and voltage limits, or 
dynamic system stability and response.  If the proposed technological advancement is a 
Permissible Technological Advancement, no additional study will be necessary and the proposed 
technological advancement will not be considered a Material Modification. 
 
PJM:   
 
“PJM” shall mean PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., including the Office of the Interconnection as 
referenced in the PJM Operating Agreement.  When such term is being used in the RAA it shall 
also include the PJM Board. 
 
PJM Administrative Service: 
 
“PJM Administrative Service” shall mean the services provided by PJM pursuant to Tariff, 
Schedule 9. 
 
PJM Board: 
 
“PJM Board” shall mean the Board of Managers of the LLC, acting pursuant to the Operating 
Agreement except when such term is being used in Tariff, Attachment M, in which case PJM 
Board shall mean the Board of Managers of PJM or its designated representative, exclusive of 
any members of PJM Management. 
 
PJM Control Area: 
 
“PJM Control Area” shall mean the Control Area recognized by NERC as the PJM Control Area. 
 
PJM Entities: 
 
“PJM Entities” shall mean PJM, including the Market Monitoring Unit, the PJM Board, and PJM’s 
officers, employees, representatives, advisors, contractors, and consultants. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 7 
 
PJM Interchange: 
 
“PJM Interchange” shall mean the following, as determined in accordance with the Operating 
Agreement and Tariff: (a) for a Market Participant that is a Network Service User, the amount by 
which its interval Equivalent Load exceeds, or is exceeded by, the sum of the interval outputs of 
its operating generating resources; or (b) for a Market Participant that is not a Network Service 
User, the amount of its Spot Market Backup; or (c) the interval scheduled deliveries of Spot 
Market Energy by a Market Seller from an External Resource; or (d) the interval net metered 
output of any other Market Seller; or (e) the interval scheduled deliveries of Spot Market Energy 
to an External Market Buyer; or (f) the inteval scheduled deliveries to an Internal Market Buyer 
that is not a Network Service User. 
 
PJM Interchange Energy Market: 
 
“PJM Interchange Energy Market” shall mean the regional competitive market administered by 
the Office of the Interconnection for the purchase and sale of spot electric energy at wholesale in 
interstate commerce and related services established pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 
1, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K – Appendix. 
 
PJM Interchange Export: 
 
“PJM Interchange Export” shall mean the following, as determined in accordance with the 
Operating Agreement and Tariff:  (a) for a Market Participant that is a Network Service User, the 
amount by which its interval Equivalent Load is exceeded by the sum of the inteval outputs of its 
operating generating resources; or (b) for a Market Participant that is not a Network Service 
User, the amount of its Spot Market Backup sales; or (c) the interval scheduled deliveries of Spot 
Market Energy by a Market Seller from an External Resource; or (d) the interval net metered 
output of any other Market Seller. 
 
PJM Interchange Import: 
 
“PJM Interchange Import” shall mean the following, as determined in accordance with the 
Operating Agreement and Tariff:  (a) for a Market Participant that is a Network Service User, the 
amount by which its interval Equivalent Load exceeds the sum of the interval outputs of its 
operating generating resources; or (b) for a Market Participant that is not a Network Service 
User, the amount of its Spot Market Backup purchases; or (c) the interval scheduled deliveries of 
Spot Market Energy to an External Market Buyer; or (d) the interval scheduled deliveries to an 
Internal Market Buyer that is not a Network Service User. 
 
PJM Liaison: 
 
“PJM Liaison” shall mean the liaison established under Tariff, Attachment M, section III.I. 
 
PJM Management: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 8 
“PJM Management” shall mean the officers, executives, supervisors and employee managers of 
PJM. 
 
PJM Manuals: 
 
“PJM Manuals” shall mean the instructions, rules, procedures and guidelines established by the 
Office of the Interconnection for the operation, planning, and accounting requirements of the 
PJM Region and the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
PJM Markets: 
 
“PJM Markets” shall mean the PJM Interchange Energy Market, capacity markets, including the 
RPM auctions, and any other market operated by PJM, together with all bilateral or other wholesale 
electric power and energy transactions, capacity transactions, ancillary services transactions 
(including black start service), transmission transactions, Financial Transmission Rights 
transactions, or transactions in any other market operated under the Agreements within the PJM 
Region, wherein Market Participants may incur Obligations to PJM and/or PJMSettlement. 
 
PJM Market Rules: 
 
“PJM Market Rules” shall mean the rules, standards, procedures, and practices of the PJM 
Markets set forth in the PJM Tariff, the PJM Operating Agreement, the PJM Reliability 
Assurance Agreement, the PJM Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, the PJM 
Manuals, the PJM Regional Practices Document, the PJM-Midwest Independent Transmission 
System Operator Joint Operating Agreement or any other document setting forth market rules. 
 
PJM Net Assets: 
 
“PJM Net Assets” shall mean the total assets per PJM’s consolidated quarterly or year-end 
financial statements most recently issued as of the date of the receipt of written notice of a claim 
less amounts for which PJM is acting as a temporary custodian on behalf of its Members, 
transmission developers/Designated Entities, and generation developers, including, but not 
limited to, cash deposits related to credit requirement compliance, study and/or interconnection 
receivables, member prepayments, invoiced amounts collected from Net Buyers but have not yet 
been paid to Net Sellers, and excess congestion (as described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 
1, section 5.2.6, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.2.6). 
 
PJM Region: 
 
“PJM Region” shall have the meaning specified in the Operating Agreement.  
 
PJM Regional Practices Document: 
“PJM Regional Practices Document” shall mean the document of that title that compiles and 
describes the practices in the PJM Markets and that is made available in hard copy and on the 
Internet. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 9 
PJM Region Installed Reserve Margin: 
 
“PJM Region Installed Reserve Margin” shall mean the percent installed reserve margin for the 
PJM Region required pursuant to RAA, Schedule 4.1, as approved by the PJM Board. 
 
PJM Region Peak Load Forecast: 
 
“PJM Region Peak Load Forecast” shall mean the peak load forecast used by the Office of the 
Interconnection in determining the PJM Region Reliability Requirement, and shall be determined 
on both a preliminary and final basis as set forth in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.   
 
PJM Region Reliability Requirement:  
 
“PJM Region Reliability Requirement” shall mean, for purposes of the Base Residual Auction, 
the Forecast Pool Requirement multiplied by the Preliminary PJM Region Peak Load Forecast, 
less the sum of all Preliminary Unforced Capacity Obligations of FRR Entities in the PJM 
Region; and, for purposes of the  Incremental Auctions, the Forecast Pool Requirement 
multiplied by the updated PJM Region Peak Load Forecast, less the sum of all updated Unforced 
Capacity Obligations of FRR Entities in the PJM Region. 
 
PJMSettlement:   
 
“PJM Settlement” or “PJM Settlement, Inc.” shall mean PJM Settlement, Inc. (or its successor), 
established by PJM as set forth in Operaitng Agreement, section 3.3. 
 
PJM Tariff, Tariff, O.A.T.T., OATT or PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff: 
 
“PJM Tariff,” “Tariff,” “O.A.T.T.,” “OATT,” or “PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff” shall 
mean that certain PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, including any schedules, appendices or 
exhibits attached thereto, on file with FERC and as amended from time to time thereafter. 
 
Plan: 
 
“Plan” shall mean the PJM market monitoring plan set forth in Tariff, Attachment M. 
 
Planned Demand Resource: 
 
“Planned Demand Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Planned External Generation Capacity Resource: 
 
“Planned External Generation Capacity Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the 
Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Planned Generation Capacity Resource: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 10 
 
“Planned Generation Capacity Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Planning Period: 
 
“Planning Period” shall mean the 12 moths beginning June 1 and extending through May 31 of 
the following year, or such other period approved by the Members Committee. 
 
Planning Period Balance: 
 
“Planning Period Balance” shall mean the entire period of time remaining in the Planning Period 
following the month that a monthly auction is conducted.  
 
Planning Period Quarter: 
 
“Planning Period Quarter” shall mean any of the following three month periods in the Planning 
Period: June, July and August; September, October and November; December, January and 
February; or March, April and May. 
 
Point(s) of Delivery: 
 
“Point(s) of Delivery” shall mean the point(s) on the Transmission Provider’s Transmission 
System where capacity and energy transmitted by the Transmission Provider will be made 
available to the Receiving Party under Tariff, Part II.  The Point(s) of Delivery shall be specified 
in the Service Agreement for Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service. 
 
Point of Interconnection: 
 
“Point of Interconnection” shall mean the point or points where the Customer Interconnection 
Facilities interconnect with the Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities or the 
Transmission System. 
 
Point(s) of Receipt: 
 
“Point(s) of Receipt” shall mean point(s) of interconnection on the Transmission Provider’s 
Transmission System where capacity and energy will be made available to the Transmission 
Provider by the Delivering Party under Tariff, Part II.  The Point(s) of Receipt shall be specified 
in the Service Agreement for Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service. 
 
Point-To-Point Transmission Service: 
 
“Point-To-Point Transmission Service shall mean the reservation and transmission of capacity 
and energy on either a firm or non-firm basis from the Point(s) of Receipt to the Point(s) of 
Delivery under Tariff, Part II. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 11 
Power Purchaser: 
 
“Power Purchaser” shall mean the entity that is purchasing the capacity and energy to be 
transmitted under the Tariff. 
 
PRD Curve: 
 
“PRD Curve” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
PRD Provider: 
 
“PRD Provider” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
PRD Reservation Price: 
 
“PRD Reservation” Price shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
PRD Substation:   
 
“PRD Substation” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Pre-Confirmed Application: 
 
“Pre-Confirmed Application” shall be an Application that commits the Eligible Customer to 
execute a Service Agreement upon receipt of notification that the Transmission Provider can 
provide the requested Transmission Service. 
 
Pre-Emergency Load Response Program: 
 
“Pre-Emergency Load Response Program” shall be the program by which Curtailment Service 
Providers may be compensated by PJM for Demand Resources that will reduce load when 
dispatched by PJM during pre-emergency conditions, and is described in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 8 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 8.  
 
Pre-Expansion PJM Zones: 
 
“Pre-Expansion PJM Zones” shall be zones included in the Tariff, along with applicable 
Schedules and Attachments, for certain Transmission Owners – Atlantic City Electric Company, 
Baltimore Gas and Electric Company, Delmarva Power and Light Company, Jersey Central 
Power and Light Company, Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission, LLC (“MAIT”) (MAIT owns 
and operates the transmission facilities in the Metropolitan Edison Company Zone and the 
Pennsylvania Electric Company Zone), PECO Energy Company, Pennsylvania Power & Light 
Group, Potomac Electric Power Company, Public Service Electric and Gas Company, Allegheny 
Power, and Rockland Electric Company. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 12 
Price Responsive Demand: 
 
“Price Responsive Demand” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Primary Reserve: 
 
“Primary Reserve” shall mean the total reserve capability of generation resources that can be 
converted fully into energy or Economic Load Response Participant resources whose demand 
can be reduced within ten minutes of a request from the Office of the Interconnection dispatcher, 
and is comprised of both Synchronized Reserve and Non-Synchronized Reserve. 
 
Primary Reserve Alert 
 
“Primary Reserve Alert” shall mean a notification from PJM to alert Members of an anticipated 
shortage of Operating Reserve capacity for a future critical period. 
 
Primary Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Primary Reserve Requirement” shall mean the megawatts required to be maintained in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone as Primary Reserve absent any increase to account for 
additional reserves scheduled to address operational uncertainty.  The Primary Reserve 
Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The requirement can be 
satisfied by any combination of Synchronized Reserve or Non-Synchronized Reserve resources. 
 
Principal: 
 
“Principal” shall mean (i) all natural persons who Control Corporate Level Strategy for the 
Participant, which shall include a chief executive officer, managing member (or equivalent 
positions regardless of title) and members of a board of directors or board of managers; (ii) the 
chief legal officer or general counsel (or equivalent position regardless of title); (iii) the natural 
person who Controls the financial affairs and investments of the Participant, which shall include 
a chief financial officer (or equivalent position regardless of title); (iv) the natural person who 
Controls the Participant’s management of commodity and derivatives market risks, which shall 
include a chief risk officer (or equivalent position regardless of title); (v) the natural person who 
Controls the Participant’s transactions in the applicable PJM Markets (regardless of title); and 
(vi) all Beneficial Owners.  
 
“Control,” as that term is used in this definition, refers to possession of the power to direct the 
management or policies of an entity. 
 
“Corporate Level Strategy,” as that term is used in this definition, refers to the highest-level 
strategy of an entity, focused on the entity’s overall direction rather than the day-to-day 
operations of the entity. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 13 
“Beneficial Owner,” as that term is used in this definition, means a natural person who, directly 
or indirectly, alone or together with such person’s Family Members, owns, controls, or holds 
with power to vote 10 percent or more of the outstanding securities of the Participant.  
 
“Family Member,” as that term is used in this definition of “Beneficial Owner,” means a spouse, 
domestic partner, parent, child, or sibling.  
 
For purposes of trusts with, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the outstanding 
securities of the Participant as described above, the following are Beneficial Owners: (a) a 
natural person trustee; (b) a natural person with the authority to dispose of the trust assets; (c) a 
natural person grantor or settlor who has the right to revoke the trust or otherwise withdraw the 
assets of the trust; and (d) a natural person beneficiary who is the sole permissible recipient of 
income and principal from the trust or has the right to demand a distribution of or withdraw 
substantially all of the assets from the trust. 
 
If, due to the Participant’s business enterprise, structure or otherwise, a function described in 
clauses (i) through (v) above is performed by a natural person or entity separate from the 
Participant (such as a risk management department in an affiliate, or a director or manager at an 
entity that controls or invests in the Participant), then for that Participant the term Principal shall 
mean that natural person, or the senior officer or manager of that entity, that performs such 
function. 
 
Prior CIL Exception External Resource: 
 
“Prior CIL Exception External Resource” shall mean an external Generation Capacity Resource 
for which (1) a Capacity Market Seller had, prior to May 9, 2017, cleared a Sell Offer in an RPM 
Auction under the exception provided to the definition of Capacity Import Limit as set forth in 
RAA, Article I or (2) an FRR Entity committed, prior to May 9, 2017, in an FRR Capacity Plan 
under the exception provided in the definition of Capacity Import Limit.  In the event only a 
portion (in MW) of an external Generation Capacity Resource has a Pseudo-Tie into the PJM 
Region, that portion of the external Generation Capacity Resource, which can include up to the 
maximum megawatt amount cleared in any prior RPM auction or committed in an FRR Capacity 
Plan (and no other portion thereof) is eligible for treatment as a Prior CIL Exception External 
Resource if such portion satisfies the requirements of the first sentence of this definition. 
 
Project Financing: 
 
“Project Financing” shall mean:  (a) one or more loans, leases, equity and/or debt financings, 
together with all modifications, renewals, supplements, substitutions and replacements thereof, 
the proceeds of which are used to finance or refinance the costs of the Customer Facility, any 
alteration, expansion or improvement to the Customer Facility, the purchase and sale of the 
Customer Facility or the operation of the Customer Facility; (b) a power purchase agreement 
pursuant to which Interconnection Customer’s obligations are secured by a mortgage or other 
lien on the Customer Facility; or (c) loans and/or debt issues secured by the Customer Facility. 
 
Project Finance Entity: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 14 
 
“Project Finance Entity” shall mean:  (a) a holder, trustee or agent for holders, of any component 
of Project Financing; or (b) any purchaser of capacity and/or energy produced by the Customer 
Facility to which Interconnection Customer has granted a mortgage or other lien as security for 
some or all of Interconnection Customer’s obligations under the corresponding power purchase 
agreement. 
 
Projected EAS Dispatch: 
 
“Projected EAS Dispatch” shall mean, for purposes of calculating the Net Energy and Ancillary 
Services Revenue Offset, a simulated dispatch with the objective of committing and dispatching 
a resource for the purpose of maximizing its net revenues. The calculation shall take inputs 
including Forward Hourly LMPs, Forward Hourly Ancillary Service Prices, and Forward Daily 
Natural Gas Prices or forecasted fuel prices, as applicable, in addition to the operating 
parameters and costs of the specific resource, including the cost emission allowances. Using 
operating parameters, forward or forecasted fuel prices, as applicable and other cost pricing 
inputs, a composite, cost-based energy offer is created for the resource such that its commitment 
and dispatch is co-optimized between energy and ancillary services in the Day-Ahead Energy 
Market and then the Real-Time Energy Market considering the electricity and ancillary service 
price inputs. In the Real-Time Energy Market co-optimization, the resource is assumed to be 
operating in the hours it was scheduled in the Day-Ahead Energy Market but is dispatched 
according to the real-time price inputs. In the hours where the resource was not committed in the 
Day-Ahead Market, the resource may be committed and dispatched in real-time only subject to 
the real-time electricity and ancillary service price inputs and the resource’s offer and operating 
parameters.  For combustion turbine units only, the cost-based energy offer will include a 10 
percent adder only for the 2022/2023 Delivery Year. 
 
Projected PJM Market Revenues: 
 
“Projected PJM Market Revenues” shall mean a component of the Market Seller Offer Cap 
calculated in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6. 
 
Proportional Multi-Driver Project: 
 
“Proportional Multi-Driver Project” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating 
Agreement. 
 
Provisional Interconnection Service: 
 
“Provisional Interconnection Service” shall mean interconnection service provided by 
Transmission Provider associated with interconnecting the Interconnection Customer’s Generating 
Facility to Transmission Provider’s Transmission System and enabling that Transmission System 
to receive electric energy and capacity from the Generating Facility at the Point of Interconnection, 
pursuant to the terms of the Interconnection Service Agreement and, if applicable, the Tariff. 
 
Pseudo-Tie: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 15 
 
“Pseudo-Tie” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Public Policy Objectives: 
 
“Public Policy Objectives” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Public Policy Requirements: 
 
“Public Policy Requirements” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating 
Agreement. 
 
Qualifying Transmission Upgrade: 
 
“Qualifying Transmission Upgrade” shall mean a proposed enhancement or addition to the 
Transmission System that: (a) will increase the Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit into an LDA 
by a megawatt quantity certified by the Office of the Interconnection; (b) the Office of the 
Interconnection has determined will be in service on or before the commencement of the first 
Delivery Year for which such upgrade is the subject of a Sell Offer in the Base Residual 
Auction; (c) is the subject of a Facilities Study Agreement executed before the conduct of the 
Base Residual Auction for such Delivery Year and (d) a New Service Customer is obligated to 
fund through a rate or charge specific to such facility or upgrade. 
 
Queue Position: 
 
“Queue Position” shall mean the priority assigned to an Interconnection Request, a Completed 
Application, or an Upgrade Request pursuant to applicable provisions of Tariff, Part VI. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 1 
Definitions – R - S 
 
Ramping Capability: 
 
“Ramping Capability” shall mean the sustained rate of change of generator output, in megawatts 
per minute. 
 
Real-time Congestion Price: 
 
“Real-time Congestion Price” shall mean the Congestion Price resulting from the Office of the 
Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Loss Price: 
 
“Real-time Loss Price” shall mean the Loss Price resulting from the Office of the 
Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Energy Market: 
 
“Real-time Energy Market” shall mean the purchase or sale of energy and payment of 
Transmission Congestion Charges for quantity deviations from the Day-ahead Energy Market in 
the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Offer: 
 
“Real-time Offer” shall mean a new offer or an update to a Market Seller’s existing cost-based or 
market-based offer for a clock hour, submitted for use after the close of the Day-ahead Energy 
Market. 
 
Real-time Prices: 
 
“Real-time Prices” shall mean the Locational Marginal Prices resulting from the Office of the 
Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Settlement Interval: 
 
“Real-time Settlement Interval” shall mean the interval used by settlements, which shall be every 
five minutes. 
 
Real-time System Energy Price: 
 
“Real-time System Energy Price” shall mean the System Energy Price resulting from the Office 
of the Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Reasonable Efforts: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 2 
“Reasonable Efforts” shall mean, with respect to any action required to be made, attempted, or 
taken by an Interconnection Party or by a Construction Party under Tariff, Part IV or Part VI, an 
Interconnection Service Agreement, or a Construction Service Agreement, such efforts as are 
timely and consistent with Good Utility Practice and with efforts that such party would undertake 
for the protection of its own interests. 
 
Receiving Party: 
 
“Receiving Party” shall mean the entity receiving the capacity and energy transmitted by the 
Transmission Provider to Point(s) of Delivery. 
 
Referral: 
 
“Referral” shall mean a formal report of the Market Monitoring Unit to the Commission for 
investigation of behavior of a Market Participant, of behavior of PJM, or of a market design 
flaw, pursuant to Tariff, Attachment M, section IV.I. 
 
Reference Resource: 
 
“Reference Resource” shall mean a combustion turbine generating station, configured with a 
single General Electric Frame 7HA turbine with evaporative cooling, Selective Catalytic 
Reduction technology all CONE Areas, dual fuel capability, and a heat rate of 9.134 Mmbtu/ 
MWh.  
 
Regional Entity: 
 
“Regional Entity” shall have the same meaning specified in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan: 
 
“Regional Transmission Expansion Plan” shall mean the plan prepared by the Office of the 
Interconnection pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6 for the enhancement and 
expansion of the Transmission System in order to meet the demands for firm transmission 
service in the PJM Region. 
 
Regional Transmission Group (RTG): 
 
“Regional Transmission Group” or “RTG” shall mean a voluntary organization of transmission 
owners, transmission users and other entities approved by the Commission to efficiently 
coordinate transmission planning (and expansion), operation and use on a regional (and 
interregional) basis. 
 
Regulation: 
 
“Regulation” shall mean the capability of a specific generation resource or Demand Resource 
with appropriate telecommunications, control and response capability to separately increase and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 3 
decrease its output or adjust load in response to a regulating control signal, in accordance with 
the specifications in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Regulation Zone: 
 
“Regulation Zone” shall mean any of those one or more geographic areas, each consisting of a 
combination of one or more Control Zone(s) as designated by the Office of the Interconnection 
in the PJM Manuals, relevant to provision of, and requirements for, regulation service. 
 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority: 
 
“Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority” shall mean an entity that has jurisdiction over 
and establishes prices and policies for competition for providers of retail electric service to end-
customers, such as the city council for a municipal utility, the governing board of a cooperative 
utility, the state public utility commission or any other such entity. 
 
Reliability Assurance Agreement or PJM Reliability Assurance Agreement: 
 
“Reliability Assurance Agreement” or “PJM Reliability Assurance Agreement” shall mean that 
certain Reliability Assurance Agreement Among Load Serving Entities in the PJM Region, on 
file with FERC as PJM Interconnection L.L.C. Rate Schedule FERC No. 44, and as amended 
from time to time thereafter. 
 
Reliability Pricing Model Auction: 
 
“Reliability Pricing Model Auction” or “RPM Auction” shall mean the Base Residual Auction or 
any Incremental Auction, or, for the 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 Delivery Years, any Capacity 
Performance Transition Incremental Auction. 
 
Required Transmission Enhancements: 
 
“Regional Transmission Enhancements” shall mean enhancements and expansions of the 
Transmission System that (1) a Regional Transmission Expansion Plan developed pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 6 or (2) any joint planning or coordination agreement between 
PJM and another region or transmission planning authority set forth in Tariff, Schedule 12-
Appendix B (“Appendix B Agreement”) designates one or more of the Transmission Owner(s) to 
construct and own or finance.  Required Transmission Enhancements shall also include 
enhancements and expansions of facilities in another region or planning authority that meet the 
definition of transmission facilities pursuant to FERC’s Uniform System of Accounts or have 
been classified as transmission facilities in a ruling by FERC addressing such facilities 
constructed pursuant to an Appendix B Agreement cost responsibility for which has been 
assigned at least in part to PJM pursuant to such Appendix B Agreement.  
 
Reserved Capacity: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 4 
“Reserved Capacity” shall mean the maximum amount of capacity and energy that the 
Transmission Provider agrees to transmit for the Transmission Customer over the Transmission 
Provider’s Transmission System between the Point(s) of Receipt and the Point(s) of Delivery 
under Tariff, Part II.  Reserved Capacity shall be expressed in terms of whole megawatts on a 
sixty (60) minute interval (commencing on the clock hour) basis. 
 
Reserve Penalty Factor: 
 
“Reserve Penalty Factor” shall mean the cost, in $/MWh, associated with being unable to meet a 
specific reserve requirement in a Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone.  A Reserve Penalty Factor 
will be defined for each reserve requirement in a Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone. 
 
Reserve Sub-zone: 
 
“Reserve Sub-zone” shall mean any of those geographic areas wholly contained within a Reserve 
Zone, consisting of a combination of a portion of one or more Control Zone(s) as designated by 
the Office of the Interconnection in the PJM Manuals, relevant to provision of, and requirements 
for, reserve service. 
 
Reserve Zone: 
 
“Reserve Zone” shall mean any of those geographic areas consisting of a combination of one or 
more Control Zone(s), as designated by the Office of the Interconnection in the PJM Manuals, 
relevant to provision of, and requirements for, reserve service. 
 
Residual Auction Revenue Rights: 
 
“Residual Auction Revenue Rights” shall mean incremental stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights 
created within a Planning Period by an increase in transmission system capability, including the 
return to service of existing transmission capability, that was not modeled pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.5 and the parallel provisions of  Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 7.5 in compliance with Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.2 (h) 
and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4.2(h), and, if modeled, 
would have increased the amount of stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights allocated pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.2 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 7.4.2; provided that, the foregoing notwithstanding, Residual Auction 
Revenue Rights shall exclude: 1) Incremental Auction Revenue Rights allocated pursuant to 
Tariff, Part VI;  and 2) Auction Revenue Rights allocated to entities that are assigned cost 
responsibility pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6 for  transmission upgrades that 
create such rights. 
 
Residual Metered Load: 
 
“Residual Metered Load” shall mean all load remaining in an electric distribution company’s 
fully metered franchise area(s) or service territory(ies) after all nodally priced load of entities 
serving load in such area(s) or territory(ies) has been carved out. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 5 
 
Resource Substitution Charge: 
 
“Resource Substitution Charge” shall mean a charge assessed on Capacity Market Buyers in an 
Incremental Auction to recover the cost of replacement Capacity Resources. 
 
Revenue Data for Settlements: 
 
“Revenue Data for Settlements” shall mean energy quantities used in accounting and billing as 
determined pursuant to Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix and the corresponding provisions of 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1. 
 
RPM Seller Credit: 
  
“RPM Seller Credit” shall mean an additional form of Unsecured Credit defined in Tariff, 
Attachment Q, section IV. 
 
Scheduled Incremental Auctions: 
 
“Scheduled Incremental Auctions” shall refer to the First, Second, or Third Incremental Auction. 
 
Schedule of Work: 
 
“Schedule of Work” shall mean that schedule attached to the Interconnection Construction 
Service Agreement setting forth the timing of work to be performed by the Constructing Entity 
pursuant to the Interconnection Construction Service Agreement, based upon the Facilities Study 
and subject to modification, as required, in accordance with Transmission Provider’s scope 
change process for interconnection projects set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Scope of Work: 
 
“Scope of Work” shall mean that scope of the work attached as a schedule to the Interconnection 
Construction Service Agreement and to be performed by the Constructing Entity(ies) pursuant to 
the Interconnection Construction Service Agreement, provided that such Scope of Work may be 
modified, as required, in accordance with Transmission Provider’s scope change process for 
interconnection projects set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Seasonal Capacity Performance Resource: 
 
“Seasonal Capacity Performance Resource” shall have the same meaning specified in Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.5A. 
 
Seasonal Facility Rating: 
 
“Seasonal Facility Rating” shall mean a Transmission Facility Rating that:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 6 
(a) Applies to a specified season, where seasons are defined by the Office of the Interconnection 
to include not fewer than four seasons in each year, and to reasonably reflect portions of the year 
where expected high temperatures are relatively consistent. 
 
(b) Reflects an up-to-date forecast of ambient air temperature across the relevant season over 