[PART I-COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS - Part 1 of 5]

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS 
 
References to section numbers in this Part I refer to sections of this Part I, unless otherwise 
specified. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions 
Effective Date: 6/1/2017 - Docket #: ER17-1372-000 - Page 1 
1. Definitions 
 
Unless the context otherwise specifies or requires, capitalized terms used in this PJM Tariff shall 
have the respective meanings assigned herein or in the Schedules hereto, or in the PJM Operating 
Agreement or RAA if not otherwise defined in this PJM Tariff, for all purposes of this PJM 
Tariff (such definitions to be equally applicable to both the singular and the plural forms of the 
terms defined). Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to sections, Schedules, Exhibits 
or Appendices are to sections, Schedules, Exhibits or Appendices of this Agreement.  As used in 
this Agreement  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 1 
Definitions – A - B 
 
30-minute Reserve:  
 
“30-minute Reserve” shall mean the reserve capability of generation resources that can be 
converted fully into energy or Economic Load Response Participant resources whose demand 
can be reduced within 30 minutes of a request from the Office of the Interconnection dispatcher, 
and is comprised of Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve and Secondary Reserve.  
 
30-minute Reserve Requirement:  
 
“30-minute Reserve Requirement” shall mean the megawatts required to be maintained in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone, as Secondary Reserve, absent any increase to account for 
additional reserves scheduled to address operational uncertainty.  The 30-minute Reserve 
Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The requirement can be 
satisfied by any combination of Synchronized Reserve, Non Synchronized Reserve or Secondary 
Reserve resources.  
 
Abnormal Condition: 
 
“Abnormal Condition” shall mean any condition on the Interconnection Facilities which, 
determined in accordance with Good Utility Practice, is: (i) outside normal operating parameters 
such that facilities are operating outside their normal ratings or that reasonable operating limits 
have been exceeded; and (ii) could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the 
safe and reliable operation of the Interconnection Facilities; but which, in any case, could 
reasonably be expected to result in an Emergency Condition.  Any condition or situation that 
results from lack of sufficient generating capacity to meet load requirements or that results solely 
from economic conditions shall not, standing alone, constitute an Abnormal Condition. 
 
Acceleration Request: 
 
“Acceleration Request” shall mean a request pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 1.9.4A, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.9.4A, to 
accelerate or reschedule a transmission outage scheduled pursuant to Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 1.9.2 or Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.9.4, and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.9.2 or Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 1.9.4. 
 
Affected System: 
 
“Affected System” shall mean an electric system other than the Transmission Provider’s 
Transmission System that may be affected by a proposed interconnection or on which a proposed 
interconnection or addition of facilities or upgrades may require modifications or upgrades to the 
Transmission System. 
 
Affected System Operator: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 2 
“Affected System Operator” shall mean an entity that operates an Affected System or, if the 
Affected System is under the operational control of an independent system operator or a regional 
transmission organization, such independent entity. 
 
Affiliate: 
 
“Affiliate” shall mean any two or more entities, one of which Controls the other or that are under 
common Control.  “Control,” as that term is used in this definition, shall mean the possession, 
directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or policies of an entity.  Ownership 
of publicly-traded equity securities of another entity shall not result in Control or affiliation for 
purposes of the Tariff or Operating Agreement if the securities are held as an investment, the 
holder owns (in its name or via intermediaries) less than 10 percent (10%) of the outstanding 
securities of the entity, the holder does not have representation on the entity’s board of directors 
(or equivalent managing entity) or vice versa, and the holder does not in fact exercise influence 
over day-to-day management decisions.  Unless the contrary is demonstrated to the satisfaction 
of the Members Committee, Control shall be presumed to arise from the ownership of or the 
power to vote, directly or indirectly, ten percent or more of the voting securities of such entity. 
 
Agreements: 
 
“Agreements” shall mean the Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement, and/or other agreements between PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. and its Members. 
 
Ambient-Adjusted Rating: 
 
“Ambient-Adjusted Rating” (AAR) shall mean a Transmission Facility Rating that:  
 
(a) Applies to a time period of not greater than one hour. 
(b) Reflects an up-to-date forecast of ambient air temperature across the time period to 
which the rating applies. 
(c) Reflects the absence of solar heating during nighttime periods, where the local 
sunrise/sunset times used to determine daytime and nighttime periods are updated at 
least monthly, if not more frequently. 
(d) Is evaluated at least each hour, if not more frequently.   
 
Ancillary Services: 
 
“Ancillary Services” shall mean those services that are necessary to support the transmission of 
capacity and energy from resources to loads while maintaining reliable operation of the 
Transmission Provider’s Transmission System in accordance with Good Utility Practice. 
 
Annual Demand Resource: 
 
“Annual Demand Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 3 
 
Annual Energy Efficiency Resource: 
 
“Annual Energy Efficiency Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Annual Resource:  
 
“Annual Resource” shall mean a Generation Capacity Resource, an Annual Energy Efficiency 
Resource or an Annual Demand Resource.  
 
Annual Resource Price Adder:  
 
“Annual Resource Price Adder” shall mean, for Delivery Years starting June 1, 2014 and ending 
May 31, 2017,  an addition to the marginal value of Unforced Capacity and the Extended 
Summer Resource Price Adder as necessary to reflect the price of Annual Resources required to 
meet the applicable Minimum Annual Resource Requirement. 
 
Annual Revenue Rate: 
 
“Annual Revenue Rate” shall mean the rate employed to assess a compliance penalty charge on a 
Curtailment Service Provider under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 11. 
 
Annual Transmission Costs: 
 
“Annual Transmission Costs” shall mean the total annual cost of the Transmission System for 
purposes of Network Integration Transmission Service shall be the amount specified in 
Attachment H for each Zone until amended by the applicable Transmission Owner or modified 
by the Commission. 
 
Applicable Laws and Regulations: 
 
“Applicable Laws and Regulations” shall mean all duly promulgated applicable federal, State 
and local laws, regulations, rules, ordinances, codes, decrees, judgments, directives, or judicial or 
administrative orders, permits and other duly authorized actions of any Governmental Authority 
having jurisdiction over the relevant parties, their respective facilities, and/or the respective 
services they provide. 
 
Applicable Regional Entity: 
 
“Applicable Regional Entity” shall mean the Regional Entity for the region in which a Network 
Customer, Transmission Customer, New Service Customer, or Transmission Owner operates. 
 
Applicable Standards: 
 
“Applicable Standards” shall mean the requirements and guidelines of NERC, the Applicable 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 4 
Regional Entity, and the Control Area in which the Customer Facility is electrically located; the 
PJM Manuals; and Applicable Technical Requirements and Standards. 
 
Applicable Technical Requirements and Standards: 
 
“Applicable Technical Requirements and Standards” shall mean those certain technical 
requirements and standards applicable to interconnections of generation and/or transmission 
facilities with the facilities of an Interconnected Transmission Owner or, as the case may be and 
to the extent applicable, of an Electric Distributor, as published by Transmission Provider in a 
PJM Manual provided, however, that, with respect to any generation facilities with maximum 
generating capacity of 2 MW or less (synchronous) or 5 MW or less (inverter-based) for which 
the Interconnection Customer executes a Construction Service Agreement or Interconnection 
Service Agreement on or after March 19, 2005, “Applicable Technical Requirements and 
Standards” shall refer to the “PJM Small Generator Interconnection Applicable Technical 
Requirements and Standards.”  All Applicable Technical Requirements and Standards shall be 
publicly available through postings on Transmission Provider’s internet website. 
 
Applicant: 
 
“Applicant” shall mean an entity desiring to become a PJM Member, become a Market 
Participant, engage in market activities, or to take Transmission Service that has submitted the 
PJMSettlement credit application, PJMSettlement credit agreement and other required submittals 
as set forth in Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Application: 
 
“Application” shall mean a request by an Eligible Customer for transmission service pursuant to 
the provisions of the Tariff. 
 
Attachment Facilities: 
 
“Attachment Facilities” shall mean the facilities necessary to physically connect a Customer 
Facility to the Transmission System or interconnected distribution facilities. 
 
Attachment H: 
 
“Attachment H” shall refer collectively to the Attachments to the PJM Tariff with the prefix  
“H” that set forth, among other things, the Annual Transmission Rates for Network Integration 
Transmission Service in the PJM Zones. 
 
Auction Revenue Rights: 
 
“Auction Revenue Rights” or “ARRs” shall mean the right to receive the revenue from the 
Financial Transmission Right auction, as further described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 7.4, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 5 
Auction Revenue Rights Credits: 
 
“Auction Revenue Rights Credits” shall mean the allocated share of total FTR auction revenues 
or costs credited to each holder of Auction Revenue Rights, calculated and allocated as specified 
in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.3, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4.3. 
 
Authorized Government Agency: 
 
“Authorized Government Agency” means a regulatory body or government agency, with 
jurisdiction over PJM, the PJM Market, or any entity doing business in the PJM Market, including, 
but not limited to, the Commission, State Commissions, and state and federal attorneys general. 
 
Avoidable Cost Rate: 
 
“Avoidable Cost Rate” shall mean a component of the Market Seller Offer Cap calculated in 
accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6. 
 
Balancing Congestion Charges: 
 
“Balancing Congestion Charges” shall be equal to the sum of congestion charges collected from 
Market Participants that are purchasing energy in the Real-time Energy Market minus [the sum 
of congestion charges paid to Market Participants that are selling energy in the Real-time Energy 
Market plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to the Joint Operating Agreement 
between the Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. and PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 38), plus any congestion charges 
calculated pursuant to the Joint Operating Agreement Among and Between New York 
Independent System Operator Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC 
No. 45), plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to agreements between the Office of 
the Interconnection and other entities, plus any charges or credits calculated pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 3.8, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 3.8, as applicable)]. 
 
Balancing Ratio: 
 
“Balancing Ratio” shall have the meaning provided in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 10A. 
 
Base Capacity Demand Resource:  
 
“Base Capacity Demand Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Base Capacity Demand Resource Constraint: 
 
“Base Capacity Demand Resource Constraint” for the PJM Region or an LDA, shall mean, for 
the 2018/2019 and 2019/2020 Delivery Years, the maximum Unforced Capacity amount, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 6 
determined by PJM, of Base Capacity Demand Resources and Base Capacity Energy Efficiency 
Resources that is consistent with the maintenance of reliability.  As more fully set forth in the 
PJM Manuals, PJM calculates the Base Capacity Demand Resource Constraint for the PJM 
Region or an LDA, by first determining a reference annual loss of load expectation (“LOLE”) 
assuming no Base Capacity Resources, including no Base Capacity Demand Resources or Base 
Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources.  The calculation for the PJM Region uses a daily 
distribution of loads under a range of weather scenarios (based on the most recent load forecast 
and iteratively shifting the load distributions to result in the Installed Reserve Margin established 
for the Delivery Year in question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative 
capacity availability distributions developed for the Installed Reserve Margin study for the 
Delivery Year in question).  The calculation for each relevant LDA uses a daily distribution of 
loads under a range of weather scenarios (based on the most recent load forecast for the Delivery 
Year in question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative capacity 
availability distributions developed for the Installed Reserve Margin study for the Delivery Year 
in question).  For the relevant LDA calculation, the weekly capacity distributions are adjusted to 
reflect the Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit for the Delivery Year in question. 
 
For both the PJM Region and LDA analyses, PJM then models the commitment of varying 
amounts of Base Capacity Demand Resources and Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources 
(displacing otherwise committed generation) as interruptible from June 1 through September 30 
and unavailable the rest of the Delivery Year in question and calculates the LOLE at each DR 
and EE level.  The Base Capacity Demand Resource Constraint is the combined amount of Base 
Capacity Demand Resources and Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources, stated as a 
percentage of the unrestricted annual peak load, that produces no more than a five percent 
increase in the LOLE, compared to the reference value.  The Base Capacity Demand Resource 
Constraint shall be expressed as a percentage of the forecasted peak load of the PJM Region or 
such LDA and is converted to Unforced Capacity by multiplying [the reliability target 
percentage] times [the Forecast Pool Requirement] times [the forecasted peak load of the PJM 
Region or such LDA, reduced by the amount of load served under the FRR Alternative]. 
 
Base Capacity Demand Resource Price Decrement: 
 
“Base Capacity Demand Resource Price Decrement” shall mean, for the 2018/2019 and 
2019/2020 Delivery Years, a difference between the clearing price for Base Capacity Demand 
Resources and Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources and the clearing price for Base 
Capacity Resources and Capacity Performance Resources, representing the cost to procure 
additional Base Capacity Resources or Capacity Performance Resources out of merit order when 
the Base Capacity Demand Resource Constraint is binding. 
 
Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resource: 
 
“Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Base Capacity Resource:  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 7 
“Base Capacity Resource” shall mean a Capacity Resource as described in Tariff, Attachment 
DD, section 5.5A(b). 
 
Base Capacity Resource Constraint: 
 
“Base Capacity Resource Constraint” for the PJM Region or an LDA, shall mean, for the 
2018/2019 and 2019/2020 Delivery Years, the maximum Unforced Capacity amount, determined 
by PJM, of Base Capacity Resources, including Base Capacity Demand Resources and Base 
Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources, that is consistent with the maintenance of reliability.  As 
more fully set forth in the PJM Manuals, PJM calculates the above Base Capacity Resource 
Constraint for the PJM Region or an LDA, by first determining a reference annual loss of load 
expectation (“LOLE”) assuming no Base Capacity Resources, including no Base Capacity 
Demand Resources or Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources.  The calculation for the PJM 
Region uses the weekly load distribution from the Installed Reserve Margin study for the 
Delivery Year in question (based on the most recent load forecast and iteratively shifting the load 
distributions to result in the Installed Reserve Margin established for the Delivery Year in 
question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative capacity availability 
distributions developed for the Installed Reserve Margin study for the Delivery Year in 
question).  The calculation for each relevant LDA uses a weekly load distribution (based on the 
Installed Reserve Margin study and the most recent load forecast for the Delivery Year in 
question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative capacity availability 
distributions developed for the Installed Reserve Margin study for the Delivery Year in 
question).  For the relevant LDA calculation, the weekly capacity distributions are adjusted to 
reflect the Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit for the Delivery Year in question.  Additionally, 
for the PJM Region and relevant LDA calculation, the weekly capacity distributions are adjusted 
to reflect winter ratings. 
 
For both the PJM Region and LDA analyses, PJM models the commitment of an amount of Base 
Capacity Demand Resources and Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources equal to the Base 
Capacity Demand Resource Constraint (displacing otherwise committed generation).  PJM then 
models the commitment of varying amounts of Base Capacity Resources (displacing otherwise 
committed generation) as unavailable during the peak week of winter and available the rest of 
the Delivery Year in question and calculates the LOLE at each Base Capacity Resource level.  
The Base Capacity Resource Constraint is the combined amount of Base Capacity Demand 
Resources, Base Capacity Energy Efficiency Resources and Base Capacity Resources, stated as a 
percentage of the unrestricted annual peak load, that produces no more than a ten percent 
increase in the LOLE, compared to the reference value.  The Base Capacity Resource Constraint 
shall be expressed as a percentage of the forecasted peak load of the PJM Region or such LDA 
and is converted to Unforced Capacity by multiplying [the reliability target percentage] times 
[one minus the pool-wide average EFORd] times [the forecasted peak load of the PJM Region or 
such LDA, reduced by the amount of load served under the FRR Alternative]. 
 
Base Capacity Resource Price Decrement: 
 
“Base Capacity Resource Price Decrement” shall mean, for the 2018/2019 and 2019/2020 
Delivery Years, a difference between the clearing price for Base Capacity Resources and the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 8 
clearing price for Capacity Performance Resources, representing the cost to procure additional 
Capacity Performance Resources out of merit order when the Base Capacity Resource Constraint 
is binding. 
 
Base Load Generation Resource 
 
“Base Load Generation Resource” shall mean a Generation Capacity Resource that operates at 
least 90 percent of the hours that it is available to operate, as determined by the Office of the 
Interconnection in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
Base Offer Segment: 
 
“Base Offer Segment” shall mean a component of a Sell Offer based on an existing Generation 
Capacity Resource, equal to the Unforced Capacity of such resource, as determined in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals.  If the Sell Offers of multiple Market Sellers are based on a 
single Existing Generation Capacity Resource, the Base Offer Segments of such Market Sellers 
shall be determined pro rata based on their entitlements to Unforced Capacity from such 
resource. 
 
Base Residual Auction:  
 
“Base Residual Auction” shall mean the auction conducted three years prior to the start of the 
Delivery Year to secure commitments from Capacity Resources as necessary to satisfy any 
portion of the Unforced Capacity Obligation of the PJM Region not satisfied through Self-
Supply. 
 
Batch Load Economic Load Response Participant Resource: 
 
“Batch Load Economic Load Response Participant Resource” shall mean an Economic Load 
Response Participant Resource that has a cyclical production process such that at most times 
during the process it is consuming energy, but at consistent regular intervals, ordinarily for 
periods of less than ten minutes, it reduces its consumption of energy for its production processes 
to minimal or zero megawatts. 
 
Behind The Meter Generation: 
 
“Behind The Meter Generation” shall refer to a generation unit that delivers energy to load 
without using the Transmission System or any distribution facilities (unless the entity that owns 
or leases the distribution facilities has consented to such use of the distribution facilities and such 
consent has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Office of the Interconnection); provided, 
however, that Behind The Meter Generation does not include (i) at any time, any portion of such 
generating unit’s capacity that is designated as a Generation Capacity Resource; or (ii) in an 
hour, any portion of the output of such generating unit that is sold to another entity for 
consumption at another electrical location or into the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Black Start Service: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 9 
 
“Black Start Service” shall mean the capability of generating units to start without an outside 
electrical supply or the demonstrated ability of a generating unit with a high operating factor 
(subject to Transmission Provider concurrence) to automatically remain operating at reduced 
levels when disconnected from the grid. 
 
Border Yearly Charge: 
 
“Border Yearly Charge” shall mean the yearly charge determined in accordance with Tariff, 
Schedule 7. 
 
Breach: 
 
“Breach” shall mean the failure of a party to perform or observe any material term or condition 
of Tariff, Part IV or Tariff, Part VI, or any agreement entered into thereunder as described in the 
relevant provisions of such agreement. 
 
Breaching Party: 
 
“Breaching Party” shall mean a party that is in Breach of Tariff, Part IV or Tariff, Part VI and/or 
an agreement entered into thereunder. 
 
Business Day: 
 
“Business Day” shall mean a day in which the Federal Reserve System is open for business and 
is not a scheduled PJM holiday. 
 
Buy Bid: 
 
“Buy Bid” shall mean a bid to buy Capacity Resources in any Incremental Auction. 
 
Buyer-Side Market Power: 
 
“Buyer-Side Market Power” shall mean the ability of Capacity Market Sellers with a Load 
Interest to suppress RPM Auction clearing prices for the overall benefit of their (and/or affiliates) 
portfolio of generation and load. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 1 
Definitions – C - D 
 
Canadian Guaranty: 
 
“Canadian Guaranty” shall mean a Corporate Guaranty provided by an Affiliate of a Participant 
that is domiciled in Canada, and meets all of the provisions of Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Cancellation Costs: 
 
“Cancellation Costs” shall mean costs and liabilities incurred in connection with: (a) cancellation 
of supplier and contractor written orders and agreements entered into to design, construct and 
install Attachment Facilities, Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades, 
and/or (b) completion of some or all of the required Attachment Facilities, Direct Assignment 
Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades, or specific unfinished portions and/or removal of 
any or all of such facilities which have been installed, to the extent required for the Transmission 
Provider and/or Transmission Owner(s) to perform their respective obligations under Tariff, Part 
IV and/or Tariff, Part VI. 
 
Capacity: 
 
“Capacity” shall mean the installed capacity requirement of the Reliability Assurance Agreement 
or similar such requirements as may be established. 
 
Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit: 
 
“Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit” or “CETL” shall have the meaning provided in the 
Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective: 
 
“Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective” or “CETO” shall have the meaning provided in the 
Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Capacity Export Transmission Customer: 
 
“Capacity Export Transmission Customer” shall mean a customer taking point to point 
transmission service under Tariff, Part II to export capacity from a generation resource located in 
the PJM Region that has qualified for an exception to the RPM must-offer requirement as 
described in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6(g). 
 
Capacity Import Limit: 
 
“Capacity Import Limit” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Capacity Interconnection Rights: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 2 
 
“Capacity Interconnection Rights” shall mean the rights to input generation as a Generation 
Capacity Resource into the Transmission System at the Point of Interconnection where the 
generating facilities connect to the Transmission System. 
 
Capacity Market Buyer: 
 
“Capacity Market Buyer” shall mean a Member that submits bids to buy Capacity Resources in 
any Incremental Auction.   
 
Capacity Market Seller: 
 
“Capacity Market Seller” shall mean a Member that owns, or has the contractual authority to 
control the output or load reduction capability of, a Capacity Resource, that has not transferred 
such authority to another entity, and that offers such resource in the Base Residual Auction or an 
Incremental Auction. 
 
Capacity Performance Resource: 
 
“Capacity Performance Resource” shall mean a Capacity Resource as described in Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.5A(a). 
 
Capacity Performance Transition Incremental Auction: 
 
“Capacity Performance Transition Incremental Auction” shall have the meaning specified in 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14D. 
 
Capacity Resource: 
 
“Capacity Resource” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Capacity Resource with State Subsidy:  
 
“Capacity Resource with State Subsidy” shall mean (1) a Capacity Resource that is offered into 
an RPM Auction or otherwise assumes an RPM commitment for which the Capacity Market 
Seller receives or is entitled to receive one or more State Subsidies for the applicable Delivery 
Year; (2) a Capacity Resource that has not cleared an RPM Auction for the Delivery Year for 
which the Capacity Market Seller last received a State Subsidy (or any subsequent Delivery 
Year) shall still be considered a Capacity Resource with State Subsidy upon the expiration of 
such State Subsidy until the resource clears an RPM Auction; (3) a Capacity Resource that is the 
subject of a bilateral transaction (including but not limited to those reported pursuant to Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 4.6) shall be deemed a Capacity Resource with State Subsidy to the 
extent an owner of the facility supporting the Capacity Resource is entitled to a State Subsidy 
associated with such facility even if the Capacity Market Seller is not entitled to a State Subsidy; 
and (4) any Jointly Owned Cross-Subsidized Capacity Resource.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 3 
Capacity Resource Clearing Price: 
 
“Capacity Resource Clearing Price” shall mean the price calculated for a Capacity Resource that 
offered and cleared in a Base Residual Auction or Incremental Auction, in accordance with 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.  
 
Capacity Storage Resource: 
 
“Capacity Storage Resource” shall mean any Energy Storage Resource that participates in the 
Reliability Pricing Model or is otherwise treated as capacity in PJM’s markets such as through a 
Fixed Resource Requirement Capacity Plan. 
 
Capacity Transfer Right: 
 
“Capacity Transfer Right” shall mean a right, allocated to LSEs serving load in a Locational 
Deliverability Area, to receive payments, based on the transmission import capability into such 
Locational Deliverability Area, that offset, in whole or in part, the charges attributable to the 
Locational Price Adder, if any, included in the Zonal Capacity Price calculated for a Locational 
Delivery Area. 
 
Capacity Transmission Injection Rights: 
 
“Capacity Transmission Injection Rights” shall mean the rights to schedule energy and capacity 
deliveries at a Point of Interconnection of a Merchant Transmission Facility with the 
Transmission System. Capacity Transmission Injection Rights may be awarded only to a 
Merchant D.C. Transmission Facility and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities 
that connects the Transmission System to another control area. Deliveries scheduled using 
Capacity Transmission Injection Rights have rights similar to those under Firm Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service or, if coupled with a generating unit external to the PJM Region that 
satisfies all applicable criteria specified in the PJM Manuals, similar to Capacity Interconnection 
Rights. 
 
Charge Economic Maximum Megawatts: 
 
“Charge Economic Maximum Megawatts” shall mean the greatest magnitude of megawatt power 
consumption available for charging in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Continuous Mode or in Charge Mode.  Charge 
Economic Maximum Megawatts shall be the Economic Minimum for an Energy Storage 
Resource or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode or in Continuous Mode. 
 
Charge Economic Minimum Megawatts: 
 
“Charge Economic Minimum Megawatts” shall mean the smallest magnitude of megawatt power 
consumption available for charging in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode.  Charge Economic Minimum 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 4 
Megawatts shall be the Economic Maximum for an Energy Storage Resource or Open-Loop 
Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode. 
 
Charge Mode: 
 
“Charge Mode” shall mean the mode of operation of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource that only includes negative megawatt quantities (i.e., 
the Energy Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource is only 
withdrawing megawatts from the grid).   
 
Charge Ramp Rate: 
 
“Charge Ramp Rate” shall mean the Ramping Capability of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode. 
 
Cleared Capacity Resource with State Subsidy: 
 
“Cleared Capacity Resource with State Subsidy” shall mean a Capacity Resource with State 
Subsidy that has cleared in an RPM Auction for a Delivery Year that is prior to the 2022/2023 
Delivery Year or, starting with 2022/2023 Delivery Year, the MWs (in installed capacity) 
comprising a Capacity Resource with State Subsidy that have cleared an RPM Auction pursuant 
to its Sell Offer at or above its resource-specific MOPR Floor Offer Price or the applicable 
default New Entry MOPR Floor Offer Price and since then, any of those MWs (in installed 
capacity) comprising a Capacity Resource with State Subsidy have been, the subject of a Sell 
Offer into the Base Residual Auction or included in an FRR Capacity Plan at the time of the 
Base Residual Auction for the relevant Delivery Year.   
 
Closed-Loop Hybrid Resource: 
 
“Closed-Loop Hybrid Resource” shall mean a Hybrid Resource that does not operate by 
charging its storage component from the grid. 
 
Cold/Warm/Hot Notification Time: 
 
“Cold/Warm/Hot Notification Time” shall mean the time interval between PJM notification and 
the beginning of the start sequence for a generating unit that is currently in its cold/warm/hot 
temperature state. The start sequence may include steps such as any valve operation, starting feed 
water pumps, startup of auxiliary equipment, etc. 
 
Cold/Warm/Hot Start-up Time: 
 
For all generating units that are not combined cycle units, “Cold/Warm/Hot Start-up Time” shall 
mean the time interval, measured in hours, from the beginning of the start sequence to the point 
after generator breaker closure, which is typically indicated by telemetered or aggregated State 
Estimator megawatts greater than zero for a generating unit in its cold/warm/hot temperature 
state. For combined cycle units, “Cold/Warm/Hot Start-up Time” shall mean the time interval 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 5 
from the beginning of the start sequence to the point after first combustion turbine generator 
breaker closure in its cold/warm/hot temperature state, which is typically indicated by 
telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero. For all generating units, 
the start sequence may include steps such as any valve operation, starting feed water pumps, 
startup of auxiliary equipment, etc. Other more detailed actions that could signal the beginning of 
the start sequence could include, but are not limited to, the operation of pumps, condensers, fans, 
water chemistry evaluations, checklists, valves, fuel systems, combustion turbines, starting 
engines or systems, maintaining stable fuel/air ratios, and other auxiliary equipment necessary 
for startup. 
 
Cold Weather Alert: 
 
“Cold Weather Alert” shall mean the notice that PJM provides to PJM Members, Transmission 
Owners, resource owners and operators, customers, and regulators to prepare personnel and 
facilities for expected extreme cold weather conditions. 
 
Collateral: 
 
“Collateral” shall be a cash deposit, including any interest thereon, or a Letter of Credit issued 
for the benefit of PJM or PJMSettlement, in an amount and form determined by and acceptable 
to PJM or PJMSettlement, provided by a Participant to PJM or PJMSettlement as credit support 
in order to participate in the PJM Markets or take Transmission Service.  “Collateral” shall also 
include surety bonds, except for the purpose of satisfying the FTR Credit Requirement, in which 
case only a cash deposit or Letter of Credit will be acceptable. 
 
Collateral Call: 
 
“Collateral Call” shall mean a notice to a Participant that additional Collateral, or possibly early 
payment, is required in order to remain in, or to regain, compliance with Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Co-Located Resource: 
 
“Co-Located Resource” shall mean a component of a Mixed Technology Facility that operates in 
the capacity, energy, and/or ancillary services market(s) as a separate resource from the other 
components of such facility. 
 
Commencement Date: 
 
“Commencement Date” shall mean the date on which Interconnection Service commences in 
accordance with an Interconnection Service Agreement. 
 
Committed Offer: 
 
The “Committed Offer” shall mean 1) for pool-scheduled resources, an offer on which a resource 
was scheduled by the Office of the Interconnection for a particular clock hour for an Operating 
Day, and 2) for self-scheduled resources, either the offer on which the Market Seller has elected 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 6 
to schedule the resource or the applicable offer for the resource determined pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.4, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 6.4, or Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.6, and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.6, for a particular clock hour for an 
Operating Day.  
 
Completed Application: 
 
“Completed Application” shall mean an application that satisfies all of the information and other 
requirements of the Tariff, including any required deposit. 
 
Compliance Aggregation Area (CAA): 
 
“Compliance Aggregation Area” or “CAA” shall mean a geographic area of Zones or sub-Zones 
that are electrically-contiguous and experience for the relevant Delivery Year, based on Resource 
Clearing Prices of, for Delivery Years through May 31, 2018, Annual Resources and for the 
2018/2019 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery Years, Capacity Performance Resources, the 
same locational price separation in the Base Residual Auction, the same locational price 
separation in the First Incremental Auction, the same locational price separation in the Second 
Incremental Auction, the same locational price separation in the Third Incremental Auction. 
 
Component DER: 
 
“Component DER” shall mean any resource, within the PJM Region, that is located on a 
distribution system, any subsystem thereof, or behind a customer meter, and is used in a DER 
Aggregation Resource by a DER Aggregator to participate in the energy, capacity, and/or 
ancillary services markets of PJM through the DER Aggregator Participation Model.  A 
Component DER may not exceed 5 MW.   
 
Composite Energy Offer:  
 
“Composite Energy Offer” for generation resources shall mean the sum (in $/MWh) of the 
Incremental Energy Offer and amortized Start-Up Costs and amortized No-load Costs, and for 
Economic Load Response Participant resources the sum (in $/MWh) of the Incremental Energy 
Offer and amortized shutdown costs, as determined in accordance with Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 2.4 and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2.4A and the PJM Manuals. 
 
Conditional Incremental Auction: 
 
“Conditional Incremental Auction” shall mean an Incremental Auction conducted for a Delivery 
Year if and when necessary to secure commitments of additional capacity to address reliability 
criteria violations arising from the delay in a Backbone Transmission upgrade that was modeled 
in the Base Residual Auction for such Delivery Year. 
 
Conditioned State Support: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 7 
“Conditioned State Support” shall mean any financial benefit required or incentivized by a state, 
or political subdivision of a state acting in its sovereign capacity, that is provided outside of PJM 
Markets and in exchange for the sale of a FERC-jurisdictional product conditioned on clearing in 
any RPM Auction, where “conditioned on clearing in any RPM Auction” refers to specific 
directives as to the level of the offer that must be entered for the relevant Generation Capacity 
Resource in the RPM Auction or directives that the Generation Capacity Resource is required to 
clear in any RPM Auction.  Conditioned State Support shall not include any Legacy Policy.   
 
CONE Area: 
 
“CONE Area” shall mean the areas listed in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.10(a)(iv)(A) and 
any LDAs established as CONE Areas pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 
5.10(a)(iv)(B).  
 
Confidential Information: 
 
“Confidential Information” shall mean any confidential, proprietary, or trade secret information 
of a plan, specification, pattern, procedure, design, device, list, concept, policy, or compilation 
relating to the present or planned business of a New Service Customer, Transmission Owner, or 
other Interconnection Party or Construction Party, which is designated as confidential by the 
party supplying the information, whether conveyed verbally, electronically, in writing, through 
inspection, or otherwise, and shall include, without limitation, all information relating to the 
producing party’s technology, research and development, business affairs and pricing, and any 
information supplied by any New Service Customer, Transmission Owner, or other 
Interconnection Party or Construction Party to another such party prior to the execution of an 
Interconnection Service Agreement or a Construction Service Agreement. 
 
Congestion Price: 
 
“Congestion Price” shall mean the congestion component of the Locational Marginal Price, 
which is the effect on transmission congestion costs (whether positive or negative) associated 
with increasing the output of a generation resource or decreasing the consumption by a Demand 
Resource, based on the effect of increased generation from or consumption by the resource on 
transmission line loadings, calculated as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2. 
 
Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, PJM Transmission Owners Agreement or 
Transmission Owners Agreement: 
 
“Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement,” “PJM Transmission Owners Agreement” or 
“Transmission Owners Agreement” shall mean the certain Consolidated Transmission Owners 
Agreement dated as of December 15, 2005, by and among the Transmission Owners and by and 
between the Transmission Owners and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. on file with the 
Commission, as amended from time to time. 
 
Constraint Relaxation Logic:  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 8 
 
“Constraint Relaxation Logic” shall mean the logic applied in the market clearing software 
where the transmission limit is increased to prevent the Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor 
from setting the Marginal Value of a transmission constraint.  
 
Constructing Entity: 
 
“Constructing Entity” shall mean either the Transmission Owner or the New Services Customer, 
depending on which entity has the construction responsibility pursuant to Tariff, Part VI and the 
applicable Construction Service Agreement; this term shall also be used to refer to an 
Interconnection Customer with respect to the construction of the Customer Interconnection 
Facilities. 
 
Construction Party: 
 
“Construction Party” shall mean a party to a Construction Service Agreement.  “Construction 
Parties” shall mean all of the Parties to a Construction Service Agreement. 
 
Construction Service Agreement: 
 
“Construction Service Agreement” shall mean either an Interconnection Construction Service 
Agreement or an Upgrade Construction Service Agreement. 
 
Contingent Facilities: 
 
“Contingent Facilities” shall mean those unbuilt Interconnection Facilities and Network 
Upgrades upon which the Interconnection Request’s costs, timing, and study findings are 
dependent and, if delayed or not built, could cause a need for restudies of the Interconnection 
Request or a reassessment of the Interconnection Facilities and/or Network Upgrades and/or 
costs and timing. 
 
Continuous Mode: 
 
“Continuous Mode” shall mean the mode of operation of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource that includes both negative and positive megawatt 
quantities (i.e., the Energy Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource 
is capable of continually and immediately transitioning from withdrawing megawatt quantities 
from the grid to injecting megawatt quantities onto the grid or injecting megawatts to 
withdrawing megawatts).  Energy Storage Resource Model Participants or Open-Loop Hybrid 
Resource operating in Continuous Mode are considered to have an unlimited ramp rate.  
Continuous Mode requires Discharge Economic Maximum Megawatts to be zero or correspond 
to an injection, and Charge Economic Maximum Megawatts to be zero or correspond to a 
withdrawal. 
 
Control Area: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 9 
“Control Area” shall mean an electric power system or combination of electric power systems 
bounded by interconnection metering and telemetry to which a common automatic generation 
control scheme is applied in order to: 
 
 (1) match the power output of the generators within the electric power system(s) and 
energy purchased from entities outside the electric power system(s), with the load within the 
electric power system(s); 
 
 (2) maintain scheduled interchange with other Control Areas, within the limits of 
Good Utility Practice; 
 
 (3) maintain the frequency of the electric power system(s) within reasonable limits in 
accordance with Good Utility Practice; and 
 
 (4) provide sufficient generating capacity to maintain operating reserves in 
accordance with Good Utility Practice. 
 
Control Zone: 
 
“Control Zone” shall have the meaning given in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities: 
 
“Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities” shall mean transmission facilities that (1) 
employ technology which Transmission Provider reviews and verifies will permit control of 
the amount and/or direction of power flow on such facilities to such extent as to effectively 
enable the controllable facilities to be operated as if they were direct current transmission 
facilities, and (2) that are interconnected with the Transmission System pursuant to Tariff, Part 
IV and Tariff, Part VI. 
 
Coordinated External Transaction: 
 
“Coordinated External Transaction” shall mean a transaction to simultaneously purchase and sell 
energy on either side of a CTS Enabled Interface in accordance with the procedures of Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.13, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.13. 
 
Coordinated Transaction Scheduling: 
 
“Coordinated Transaction Scheduling” or “CTS” shall mean the scheduling of Coordinated 
External Transactions at a CTS Enabled Interface in accordance with the procedures of 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.13, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 1.13. 
 
Corporate Guaranty: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 10 
“Corporate Guaranty” shall mean a legal document, in a form acceptable to PJM and/or 
PJMSettlement, used by a Credit Affiliate of an entity to guaranty the obligations of another 
entity. 
 
Cost of New Entry: 
 
“Cost of New Entry” or “CONE” shall mean the nominal levelized cost of a Reference Resource, 
as determined in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5. 
 
Costs: 
 
As used in Tariff, Part IV, Tariff, Part VI and related attachments, “Costs” shall mean costs and 
expenses, as estimated or calculated, as applicable, including, but not limited to, capital 
expenditures, if applicable, and overhead, return, and the costs of financing and taxes and any 
Incidental Expenses. 
 
Counterparty:  
 
“Counterparty” shall mean PJMSettlement as the contracting party, in its name and own right 
and not as an agent, to an agreement or transaction with a Market Participant or other entities, 
including the agreements and transactions with customers regarding transmission service and 
other transactions under the PJM Tariff and the Operating Agreement.  PJMSettlement shall not 
be a counterparty to (i) any bilateral transactions between Members, or (ii) any Member’s self-
supply of energy to serve its load, or (iii) any Member’s self-schedule of energy reported to the 
Office of the Interconnection to the extent that energy serves that Member’s own load. 
 
Credit Affiliate: 
 
“Credit Affiliate” shall mean Principals, corporations, partnerships, firms, joint ventures, 
associations, joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations or entities, one of which 
directly or indirectly controls the other or that are both under common Control. “Control,” as that 
term is used in this definition, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to 
direct the management or policies of a person or an entity. 
 
Credit Available for Export Transactions: 
 
“Credit Available for Export Transactions” shall mean a designation of credit to be used for 
Export Transactions that is allocated by each Market Participant from its Credit Available for 
Virtual Transactions, and which reduces the Market Participant's Credit Available for Virtual 
Transactions accordingly. 
 
Credit Available for Virtual Transactions: 
 
“Credit Available for Virtual Transactions” shall mean the Market Participant’s Working Credit 
Limit for Virtual Transactions calculated on its credit provided in compliance with its Peak 
Market Activity requirement plus available credit submitted above that amount, less any unpaid 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 11 
billed and unbilled amounts owed to PJMSettlement, plus any unpaid unbilled amounts owed by 
PJMSettlement to the Market Participant, less any applicable credit required for Minimum 
Participation Requirements, FTRs, RPM activity,  or other credit requirement determinants as 
defined in Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Credit Breach: 
 
“Credit Breach” shall mean (a) the failure of a Participant to perform, observe, meet or comply 
with any requirements of Tariff, Attachment Q or other provisions of the Agreements, other than 
a Financial Default, or (b) a determination by PJM and notice to the Participant that a Participant 
represents an unreasonable credit risk to the PJM Markets; that, in either event, has not been 
cured or remedied after any required notice has been given and any cure period has elapsed. 
 
Credit-Limited Offer: 
 
“Credit-Limited Offer” shall mean a Sell Offer that is submitted by a Market Participant in an 
RPM Auction subject to a maximum credit requirement specified by such Market Participant. 
 
Credit Support Default: 
 
“Credit Support Default,” shall mean (a) the failure of any Guarantor of a Market Participant to 
make any payment, or to perform, observe, meet or comply with any provisions of the applicable 
Guaranty or Credit Support Document that has not been cured or remedied, after any required 
notice has been given and an opportunity to cure (if any) has elapsed, (b) a representation made 
or deemed made by a Guarantor in any Credit Support Document that proves to be false, 
incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed made, (c) the failure of a 
Guaranty or other Credit Support Document to be in full force and effect prior to the satisfaction 
of all obligations of such Participant to PJM, without PJM’s consent, or (d) a Guarantor 
repudiating, disaffirming, disclaiming or rejecting, in whole or in part, its obligations under the 
Guaranty or challenging the validity of the Guaranty.  
 
Credit Support Document:  
 
“Credit Support Document” shall mean any agreement or instrument in any way guaranteeing or 
securing any or all of a Participant’s obligations under the Agreements (including, without 
limitation, the provisions of Tariff, Attachment Q), any agreement entered into under, pursuant 
to, or in connection with the Agreements or any agreement entered into under, pursuant to, or in 
connection with the Agreements and/or any other agreement to which PJM, PJMSettlement and 
the Participant are parties, including, without limitation, any Corporate Guaranty, Letter of 
Credit, or agreement granting PJM and PJMSettlement a security interest. 
 
Critical Natural Gas Infrastructure:  
 
“Critical Natural Gas Infrastructure” shall mean locations with electrical loads that are involved 
in natural gas production, processing, intrastate and interstate transmission and distribution 
pipeline facility as defined by NERC/FERC standard(s); and until such NERC/FERC standard(s) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 12 
is developed, is defined as electric loads that are involved in natural gas production, processing, 
intrastate and interstate transmission and distribution pipeline facility, which if curtailed, will 
impact the delivery of natural gas to bulk-power system natural gas-fired generation. 
 
Cross-Border: 
 
When used to describe Network Integration Transmission Service, Network External Designated 
Transmission Service or Point-to-Point Transmission Service, “Cross-Border” shall mean 
transmission service where the capacity and/or energy is delivered from a resource that is not 
part of the PJM Transmission System and/or to load that is not part of the PJM Transmission 
System. 
 
CTS Enabled Interface: 
 
“CTS Enabled Interface” shall mean an interface between the PJM Control Area and an adjacent 
Control Area at which the Office of the Interconnection has authorized the use of Coordinated 
Transaction Scheduling (“CTS”). The CTS Enabled Interfaces between the PJM Control Area 
and the New York Independent System Operator, Inc. Control Area shall be designated in the 
Joint Operating Agreement Among and Between New York Independent System Operator Inc. 
and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Schedule A (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 45).  The CTS 
Enabled Interfaces between the PJM Control Area and the Midcontinent Independent System 
Operator, Inc. shall be designated consistent with Attachment 3, section 2 of the Joint Operating 
Agreement between Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. and PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. 
 
CTS Interface Bid: 
 
“CTS Interface Bid” shall mean a unified real-time bid to simultaneously purchase and sell 
energy on either side of a CTS Enabled Interface in accordance with the procedures of Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.13, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.13. 
 
Curtailment: 
 
“Curtailment” shall mean a reduction in firm or non-firm transmission service in response to a 
transfer capability shortage as a result of system reliability conditions. 
 
Curtailment Service Provider: 
 
“Curtailment Service Provider” or “CSP” shall mean a Member or a Special Member, which 
action on behalf of itself or one or more other Members or non-Members, participates in the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market, Ancillary Services markets, and/or Reliability Pricing Model by 
causing a reduction in demand. 
 
Customer Facility: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 13 
“Customer Facility” shall mean Generation Facilities or Merchant Transmission Facilities 
interconnected with or added to the Transmission System pursuant to an Interconnection Request 
under Tariff, Part IV. 
 
Customer-Funded Upgrade: 
 
“Customer-Funded Upgrade” shall mean any Network Upgrade, Local Upgrade, or Merchant 
Network Upgrade for which cost responsibility (i) is imposed on an Interconnection Customer or 
an Eligible Customer pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, section 217, or (ii) is voluntarily undertaken by 
a New Service Customer in fulfillment of an Upgrade Request.  No Network Upgrade, Local 
Upgrade or Merchant Network Upgrade or other transmission expansion or enhancement shall be 
a Customer-Funded Upgrade if and to the extent that the costs thereof are included in the rate 
base of a public utility on which a regulated return is earned. 
 
Customer Interconnection Facilities: 
 
“Customer Interconnection Facilities” shall mean all facilities and equipment owned and/or 
controlled, operated and maintained by Interconnection Customer on Interconnection Customer’s 
side of the Point of Interconnection identified in the appropriate appendices to the 
Interconnection Service Agreement and to the Interconnection Construction Service Agreement, 
including any modifications, additions, or upgrades made to such facilities and equipment, that 
are necessary to physically and electrically interconnect the Customer Facility with the 
Transmission System. 
 
Daily Deficiency Rate: 
 
“Daily Deficiency Rate” shall mean the rate employed to assess certain deficiency charges under 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 7, Tariff, Attachment DD, section 8, Tariff, Attachment DD, 
section 9, or Tariff, Attachment DD, section 13. 
 
Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation: 
 
“Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation” shall mean the capacity obligation of a Load Serving 
Entity during the Delivery Year, determined in accordance with  Reliability Assurance 
Agreement, Schedule 8, or, as to an FRR entity, in Reliability Assurance Agreement, Schedule 
8.1. 
 
Day-ahead Congestion Price: 
 
“Day-ahead Congestion Price” shall mean the Congestion Price resulting from the Day-ahead 
Energy Market. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market” shall mean the schedule of commitments for the purchase or sale of 
energy and payment of Transmission Congestion Charges developed by the Office of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 14 
Interconnection as a result of the offers and specifications submitted in accordance with 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.10 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 1.10. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market Injection Congestion Credits: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market Injection Congestion Credits” shall mean those congestion credits 
paid to Market Participants for supply transactions in the Day-ahead Energy Market including 
generation schedules, Increment Offers, Up-to Congestion Transactions, import transactions, and 
Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transactions. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges” shall be equal to the sum of Day-
ahead Energy Market Withdrawal Congestion Charges minus [the sum of Day-ahead Energy 
Market Injection Congestion Credits plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to the Joint 
Operating Agreement between the Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, 
Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 38), plus any congestion 
charges calculated pursuant to the Joint Operating Agreement Among and Between New York 
Independent System Operator Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC 
No. 45), plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to agreements between the Office of 
the Interconnection and other entities, as applicable)]. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market Withdrawal Congestion Charges: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market Withdrawal Congestion Charges” shall mean those congestion 
charges collected from Market Participants for withdrawal transactions in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market from transactions including Demand Bids, Decrement Bids, Up-to Congestion 
Transactions, Export Transactions, and Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transactions. 
 
Day-ahead Loss Price: 
 
“Day-ahead Loss Price” shall mean the Loss Price resulting from the Day-ahead Energy Market. 
 
Day-ahead Prices: 
 
“Day-ahead Prices” shall mean the Locational Marginal Prices resulting from the Day-ahead 
Energy Market. 
 
Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transaction:  
 
“Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transaction” shall mean a transaction scheduled in the Day-ahead 
Energy Market to the PJM-MISO interface from a generator within the PJM balancing authority 
area that Pseudo-Ties into the MISO balancing authority area. 
 
Day-ahead Settlement Interval:  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 15 
 
“Day-ahead Settlement Interval” shall mean the interval used by settlements, which shall be 
every one clock hour.  
 
Day-ahead System Energy Price: 
 
“Day-ahead System Energy Price” shall mean the System Energy Price resulting from the Day-
ahead Energy Market. 
 
Deactivation: 
 
“Deactivation” shall mean the retirement or mothballing of a generating unit governed by Tariff, 
Part V. 
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit: 
 
“Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit” shall mean the credit paid to Generation Owners pursuant 
to Tariff, Part V, section 114. 
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
 
“Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate” shall mean the formula rate established pursuant to Tariff, 
Part V, section 115. 
 
Deactivation Date: 
 
“Deactivation Date” shall mean the date a generating unit within the PJM Region is either retired 
or mothballed and ceases to operate. 
 
Decrement Bid: 
 
“Decrement Bid” shall mean a type of Virtual Transaction that is a bid to purchase energy at a 
specified location in the Day-ahead Energy Market.  A cleared Decrement Bid results in 
scheduled load at the specified location in the Day-ahead Energy Market. 
 
Default: 
 
As used in the Interconnection Service Agreement and Construction Service Agreement, 
“Default” shall mean the failure of a Breaching Party to cure its Breach in accordance with the 
applicable provisions of an Interconnection Service Agreement or Construction Service 
Agreement. 
 
Delivering Party: 
 
“Delivering Party” shall mean the entity supplying capacity and energy to be transmitted at 
Point(s) of Receipt. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 16 
 
Delivery Year: 
 
“Delivery Year” shall mean the Planning Period for which a Capacity Resource is committed 
pursuant to the auction procedures specified in Tariff, Attachment DD, or pursuant to an FRR 
Capacity Plan under Reliability Assurance Agreement, Schedule 8.1. 
 
Demand Bid: 
 
“Demand Bid” shall mean a bid, submitted by a Load Serving Entity in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market, to purchase energy at its contracted load location, for a specified timeframe and 
megawatt quantity, that if cleared will result in energy being scheduled at the specified location 
in the Day-ahead Energy Market and in the physical transfer of energy during the relevant 
Operating Day.   
 
Demand Bid Limit: 
 
“Demand Bid Limit” shall mean the largest MW volume of Demand Bids that may be submitted 
by a Load Serving Entity for any hour of an Operating Day, as determined pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.10.1B, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.10.1B. 
 
Demand Bid Screening: 
 
“Demand Bid Screening” shall mean the process by which Demand Bids are reviewed against 
the applicable Demand Bid Limit, and rejected if they would exceed that limit, as determined 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.10.1B, and the parallel provisions of 
Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.10.1B. 
 
Demand Resource: 
 
“Demand Resource” shall mean a resource with the capability to provide a reduction in demand. 
 
Demand Resource Factor or DR Factor: 
 
“Demand Resource Factor” or (“DR Factor”) shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
DER Aggregation Resource: 
 
“DER Aggregation Resource” shall be comprised of one or more Component DER.  A DER 
Aggregation Resource is used by a DER Aggregator to participate in the energy, capacity, and/or 
ancillary services markets of PJM through the DER Aggregator Participation Model.  A DER 
Aggregation Resource is capable of satisfying a minimum energy and/or ancillary services 
market offer of 100 kW.  The market participation eligibility of a DER Aggregation Resource 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 17 
shall be determined in accordance with the physical and operational characteristics of the 
underlying Component DER that comprise the DER Aggregation Resource. 
 
DER Aggregator: 
 
“DER Aggregator” shall mean an entity that is a Market Participant that: (i) uses one or more 
DER Aggregation Resources to participate in the energy, capacity, and/or ancillary services 
markets of PJM through the DER Aggregator Participation Model; and (ii) has a fully-executed 
DER Aggregator Participation Service Agreement. 
 
DER Aggregator Participation Model: 
 
“DER Aggregator Participation Model” shall mean the participation model described in Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.4B. 
 
DER Capacity Aggregation Resource: 
 
“DER Capacity Aggregation Resource” shall mean one or more DER Aggregation Resource that 
participates in the Reliability Pricing Model, capable of satisfying a minimum capacity market 
offer of 100 kW, or is otherwise treated as capacity in PJM’s markets, such as through a Fixed 
Resource Requirement Capacity Plan, for the 2028/2029 Delivery Year and all subsequent 
Delivery Years.   
 
Designated Agent: 
 
“Designated Agent” shall mean any entity that performs actions or functions on behalf of the 
Transmission Provider, a Transmission Owner, an Eligible Customer, or the Transmission 
Customer required under the Tariff. 
 
Designated Entity: 
 
“Designated Entity” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Direct Assignment Facilities: 
 
“Direct Assignment Facilities” shall mean facilities or portions of facilities that are constructed 
for the sole use/benefit of a particular Transmission Customer requesting service under the 
Tariff.  Direct Assignment Facilities shall be specified in the Service Agreement that governs 
service to the Transmission Customer and shall be subject to Commission approval. 
 
Direct Charging Energy: 
 
“Direct Charging Energy” shall mean the energy that an Energy Storage Resource or Open-Loop 
Hybrid Resource purchases from the PJM Interchange Energy Market and (i) later resells to the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market; or (ii) is lost to conversion inefficiencies, provided that such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 18 
inefficiencies are an unavoidable component of the conversion, storage, and discharge process 
that is used to resell energy back to the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Direct Load Control: 
 
“Direct Load Control” shall mean load reduction that is controlled directly by the Curtailment 
Service Provider’s market operations center or its agent, in response to PJM instructions. 
 
Discharge Economic Maximum Megawatts: 
 
“Discharge Economic Maximum Megawatts” shall mean the maximum megawatt power output 
available for discharge in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model Participant 
or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Continuous Mode or in Discharge Mode. Discharge 
Economic Maximum Megawatts shall be the Economic Maximum for an Energy Storage 
Resource or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Discharge Mode or in Continuous Mode. 
 
Discharge Economic Minimum Megawatts: 
 
“Discharge Economic Minimum Megawatts” shall mean the minimum megawatt power output 
available for discharge in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model Participant 
or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Discharge Mode.  Discharge Economic Minimum Megawatts 
shall be the Economic Minimum for an Energy Storage Resource or Open-Loop Hybrid 
Resource in Discharge Mode. 
 
Discharge Mode: 
 
“Discharge Mode” shall mean the mode of operation of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource that only includes positive megawatt quantities (i.e., 
the Energy Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource is only injecting 
megawatts onto the grid).   
 
Discharge Ramp Rate: 
 
“Discharge Ramp Rate” shall mean the Ramping Capability of an Energy Storage Resource 
Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Discharge Mode. 
 
Dispatch Rate: 
 
“Dispatch Rate” shall mean the control signal, expressed in dollars per megawatt-hour, 
calculated and transmitted continuously and dynamically to direct the output level of all 
generation resources dispatched by the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with the 
Offer Data. 
 
Dispatched Charging Energy:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 19 
“Dispatched Charging Energy” shall mean Direct Charging Energy that an Energy Storage 
Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource receives from the electric grid 
pursuant to PJM dispatch while providing one of the following services in the PJM markets: 
Energy Imbalance Service pursuant to Tariff, Schedule 4; Regulation; Tier 2 Synchronized 
Reserves; or Reactive Service.  Energy Storage Resource Model Participants and Open-Loop 
Hybrid Resource shall be considered to be providing Energy Imbalance Service when they are 
dispatchable by PJM in real-time.   
 
Dynamic Schedule: 
 
“Dynamic Schedule” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Dynamic Transfer: 
 
“Dynamic Transfer” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 1 
Definitions – E - F 
 
Economic-based Enhancement or Expansion: 
 
“Economic-based Enhancement or Expansion” shall have the same meaning provided in the 
Operating Agreement. 
 
Economic Load Response Participant: 
 
“Economic Load Response Participant” shall mean a Member or Special Member that qualifies 
under Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.5A, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.5A, to participate in the PJM Interchange Energy Market 
and/or Ancillary Services markets through reductions in demand. 
 
Economic Maximum: 
 
“Economic Maximum” shall mean the highest incremental MW output level, submitted to PJM 
market systems by a Market Participant, that a unit can achieve while following economic 
dispatch.   
 
Economic Minimum: 
 
“Economic Minimum” shall mean the lowest incremental MW output level, submitted to PJM 
market systems by a Market Participant, that a unit can achieve while following economic 
dispatch. 
 
Effective FTR Holder: 
 
“Effective FTR Holder” shall mean: 
 
(i) For an FTR Holder that is either a (a) privately held company, or (b) a municipality or 
electric cooperative, as defined in the Federal Power Act, such FTR Holder, together with 
any Affiliate, subsidiary or parent of the FTR Holder, any other entity that is under common 
ownership, wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, or has the ability to influence, directly or 
indirectly, the management or policies of the FTR Holder; or  
 
(ii) For an FTR Holder that is a publicly traded company including a wholly owned 
subsidiary of a publicly traded company, such FTR Holder, together with any Affiliate, 
subsidiary or parent of the FTR Holder, any other PJM Member has over 10% common 
ownership with the FTR Holder, wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, or has the ability to 
influence, directly or indirectly, the management or policies of the FTR Holder; or  
 
(iii)  an FTR Holder together with any other PJM Member, including also any Affiliate, 
subsidiary or parent of such other PJM Member, with which it shares common ownership, 
wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, in any third entity which is a PJM Member (e.g., a 
joint venture). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 