[PART VI-ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS - Part 1 of 4]

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE REQUESTS; RIGHTS 
ASSOCIATED WITH CUSTOMER-FUNDED UPGRADES 
 
References to section numbers in this Part VI refer to sections of this Part VI, unless otherwise 
specified. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Part VI Preamble 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Preamble 
 
This Part VI shall apply to apply to: (a) any New Service Request received prior to April 1, 
2018; and (b) any New Service Request for which, as of the Transition Date (defined in Tariff, 
Part VII), the Interconnection Customer has received for execution an Interconnection Service 
Agreement or wholesale market participation agreement or has directed the Transmission 
Provider to file an Interconnection Service Agreement or wholesale market participation 
agreement unexecuted.  New Service Requests received on or after April 1, 2018 for which 
Interconnection Customers have not received for execution or directed to be filed unexecuted an 
Interconnection Service Agreement or wholesale market participation agreement will be subject 
to the Generation Interconnection Procedures set forth in Tariff, Part VII or Tariff, Part VIII, as 
applicable. 
 
Tariff, Part VI sets forth the procedures and other terms governing the Transmission Provider’s 
administration of the New Services Queue; procedures and other terms regarding studies and 
other processing of New Service Requests; the nature and timing of the agreements required in 
connection with studies and construction of required facilities; and terms and conditions relating 
to the rights available to New Service Customers in consideration of their payments for 
Customer-Funded Upgrades. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Part VI Preamble --> OATT 200 Applicability: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
200 Applicability: 
 
Tariff, Part VI applies (a) to an Interconnection Request, upon the Transmission Provider’s 
determination in an Interconnection Feasibility Study that a System Impact Study is needed to 
evaluate the facilities required to accommodate the requested interconnection; (b) to a Completed 
Application for new transmission service, upon the Transmission Provider’s determination in an 
Firm Transmission Feasibility Study that a System Impact Study is needed to evaluate the 
facilities required to provide the requested service; and (c) to Upgrade Requests, upon the 
Transmission Provider’s receipt of a completed request containing all applicable information in 
the form required by Tariff, Attachment EE in which a customer is seeking to propose a 
Merchant Network Upgrade or to advance construction of Regional Transmission Expansion 
Plan project; and (d) to Upgrade Requests seeking Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, upon 
the Transmission Provider’s determination in an Upgrade Feasibility Study that a System Impact 
Study is needed to evaluate the facilities required to accommodate the Upgrade Request.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, however, the provisions of Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G 
shall govern with respect to Generation Interconnection Requests that involve (i) proposed new 
generation resources having capability of 20 MW or less, or (ii) increases of 20 MW or less to 
the capability of existing generation resources, except where, and only to the extent, otherwise 
expressly provided herein. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Part VI Preamble --> OATT 201 Queue Position: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
201 Queue Position: 
 
Each New Service Request shall be assigned a priority, or Queue Position, based on the date and 
time all required information and requisite deposits are received, i.e., Queue Positions will be 
assigned on a first-come, first-served basis.  The Queue Position of each Interconnection Request 
and each Completed Application shall be assigned in accordance with the applicable terms of 
Tariff, Part II, Tariff, Part III, or Tariff, Part IV.  The Queue Position of each Upgrade Request 
shall be the date of Transmission Provider’s receipt of all applicable information required by 
Tariff, Attachment EE.  Subject to the applicable terms of the Tariff, all New Service Requests 
shall be processed as part of a single New Services Queue, except where such projects have been 
assigned to a subsequent queue pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, sections 36.1.01, 36.1.03, 
36.2A.1.2, or 36.2A.2, or Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, sections 110, 111, 112, or 112A, in which 
case such projects will be studied as part of a single New Services Queue with such subsequent 
queue.  With the exception of Interconnection Requests pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, section 112, 
the Transmission Provider shall publish the New Services Queue on its website identifying each 
pending New Service Request and its status as and to the extent consistent with applicable terms 
of the Tariff.  For the purpose of determining the amount of a New Service Customer's cost 
responsibility for the construction of necessary facilities or upgrades to accommodate its New 
Service Request, a New Service Request that is deemed terminated and withdrawn under this 
Part VI or other applicable terms of the Tariff shall concurrently lose its Queue Position and will 
not be included in any further studies.  Nothing in this section 201, however, precludes an entity 
from later submitting another New Service Request or resubmitting a withdrawn or terminated 
New Service Request and receiving a new Queue Position in accordance with the applicable 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, sections 36.1.01, 36.1.03, 36.2A.1.2, or 36.2A.2, or Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart G, sections 110, 111, 112, or 112A. 
 
201.1 Transferability of Queue Position: 
 
A New Service Customer may transfer its Queue Position to another entity only if, (a) in the case 
of a transfer by an Interconnection Customer, the other entity acquires the rights to the same 
Point(s) of Interconnection identified in the Interconnection Request, or, (b) in the case of a 
transfer by any other New Service Customer, the acquiring entity accepts, as applicable, the 
same receipt and delivery points or the same source and sink as stated in the transferor’s New 
Service Request.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies 
for New Service Requests 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 202 Coordination with Affected 
Systems: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
202 Coordination with Affected Systems: 
 
The Transmission Provider will coordinate with Affected System Operators the conduct of any 
studies required to determine the impact of a New Service Request on any Affected System and, 
if possible, will include those results in the System Impact Study or the Facilities Study.  The 
Transmission Provider will invite such Affected System Operators to participate in all meetings 
held with the Interconnection Customer as required by Tariff, Part VI.  The Interconnection 
Customer will cooperate with the Transmission Provider in all matters related to the conduct of 
studies by Affected System Operators and the determination of modifications to Affected 
Systems needed to accommodate the Interconnection Request.  Transmission Provider shall 
contact any potential Affected System and shall provide information regarding each relevant 
New Service Request as required for the Affected System Operator’s studies of the effects of 
such request.  A provider of transmission services on a system that may be an Affected System 
shall cooperate with the Transmission Provider in all matters related to the conduct of studies 
and the determination of modifications to Affected Systems related to New Service Requests 
under the Tariff.  To the extent Affected System results are included in the System Impact Study 
or Facilities Study, an Interconnection Customer shall be provided the opportunity to review 
such study results consistent with Tariff, Part VI, section 206.2 and Tariff, Part VI, section 
212.4(a), as applicable.  All New Service Requests will be modeled and studied consistent with 
the criteria and methodology set forth in PJM Manual 14B, section 2.3 and further supplemented 
by requirements in PJM Manual 14A, section 4.2.  These sections detail the processes and 
modeling used by the Transmission Provider for all its planning analyses, including Affected 
System studies. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 203 System Impact Study Agreement: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
203 System Impact Study Agreement:  
 
Transmission Provider shall conduct System Impact Studies pursuant to a System Impact Study 
Agreement with each affected New Service Customer. The form of the System Impact Study 
Agreement is included in Tariff, Attachment N-1. Pursuant to the System Impact Study 
Agreement, the New Service Customer shall agree to reimburse the Transmission Provider for 
the cost of a System Impact Study.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 203 System Impact Study Agreement: 
--> OATT 203.1 Cost Responsibility: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
203.1 Cost Responsibility: 
 
The System Impact Study Agreement tendered by the Transmission Provider will clearly specify 
the Transmission Provider's estimate (determined in coordination with the affected Transmission 
Owner(s)) of the cost and time required for completion of the study in which the New Service 
Request is being evaluated and the New Service Customer's cost responsibility for that study. 
The charges to all affected New Service Customers shall not exceed the actual cost of the System 
Impact Study.  In performing the System Impact Study, the Transmission Provider shall rely, to 
the extent reasonably practicable, on existing transmission planning studies. New Service 
Customers will not be assessed a charge for such existing studies; however, a New Service 
Customer will be responsible for charges associated with any modifications to existing planning 
studies that are reasonably necessary to evaluate the impact of such customer’s New Service 
Request. In the event more than one New Service Request is evaluated in a single System Impact 
Study, the cost of such study shall be allocated among the participating New Service Customers 
such that (i) each Interconnection Customer pays 100 percent of the study costs associated with 
evaluating the Attachment Facilities necessary to accommodate its Interconnection Request; (ii) 
each Eligible Customer pays 100 percent of the study costs associated with evaluating the Direct 
Assignment Facilities necessary to accommodate its Completed Application for new 
transmission service; and (iii) each New Service Customer pays the study costs associated with 
evaluating the Local Upgrades and/or Network Upgrades necessary to accommodate its New 
Service Request in proportion to its projected cost responsibility (as determined in the 
Interconnection Feasibility Study or the Firm Transmission Feasibility Study) for such upgrades. 
In the event that a New Service Customer’s responsibility for the actual cost of the System 
Impact Study under this section is less than the deposit provided with its executed System Impact 
Study Agreement, the unexpended balance of its deposit shall be refunded, with interest 
determined at the applicable rate under the Commission’s regulations. 
 
203.1.1 Transmission Owners: 
 
For System Impact Studies that the Transmission Provider conducts on behalf of a Transmission 
Owner, the Transmission Owner shall record the cost of the System Impact Studies pursuant to 
Tariff, Part I, section 8. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
204 Tender of System Impact Study Agreement: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.1 Completed Applications: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
204.1 Completed Applications: 
 
After completing a Firm Transmission Feasibility Study regarding a Completed Application for 
new transmission service, the Transmission Provider shall determine on a non-discriminatory 
basis whether a System Impact Study is required to accommodate the requested transmission 
service.  If the Transmission Provider determines that a System Impact Study is necessary to 
accommodate the requested service, it shall so inform the Eligible Customer as soon as 
practicable.  In such cases, the Transmission Provider shall, upon completion of the Firm 
Transmission Feasibility Study, tender a System Impact Study Agreement pursuant to which the 
Eligible Customer shall agree to reimburse the Transmission Provider for the required System 
Impact Study.  For a Completed Application to retain its Queue Position, the Eligible Customer 
(i) shall execute the System Impact Study Agreement and it must be received by the 
Transmission Provider within thirty (30) days, and (ii) shall pay the Transmission Provider a 
$50,000 deposit which will be applied to the Eligible Customer's study cost responsibility.  If the 
Eligible Customer elects not to execute the System Impact Study Agreement, its Completed 
Application shall be deemed terminated and withdrawn, and its deposit provided pursuant to 
Tariff, Part II, section 17.3 shall be returned, with interest. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.2 Upgrade Requests: 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 1 
204.2 Upgrade Requests: 
 
204.2.1  Upgrade Requests pursuant to Section 7.8 of Schedule 1 of the Operating   
 Agreement 
 
Upon completion of the Upgrade Feasibility Study, the Transmission Provider shall tender to the 
affected Upgrade Customer a System Impact Study Agreement. For an Upgrade Request to 
retain its assigned Queue Position pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, Preamble, section 201, within 30 
days of receiving the tendered System Impact Study Agreement, the Upgrade Customer (i) shall 
execute the System Impact Study Agreement and return it to the Transmission Provider, (ii) shall 
remit to Transmission Provider all past due amounts of the actual Upgrade Feasibility Study 
costs exceeding the Upgrade Feasibility Study deposit fee contained in Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart A, section 36.3, if any, and (iii) shall pay the Transmission Provider a deposit of 
$50,000. If a terminated and withdrawn Upgrade Request was to be included in a System Impact 
Study evaluating more than one New Service Request, then the costs of the System Impact Study 
shall be redetermined and reallocated among the remaining participating New Service Customers 
as specified in this section 204. 
 
204.2.2  Upgrade Requests for Merchant Network Upgrades 
 
After receiving an Upgrade Request for a Merchant Network Upgrade, the Transmission 
Provider shall acknowledge receipt of the Upgrade Request, pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, Subpart 
A, section 204.2.2.1. The Transmission Provider shall determine whether the Upgrade Request 
includes: (i) the substation or transmission line or lines where the upgrade(s) will be made; (ii) 
the nominal capability or increase in capability (in MW or MVA) of the proposed Merchant 
Network Upgrade; and (iii) the planned date the proposed Merchant Network Upgrade will be in 
service, such date to be no more than seven (7) years from the date the request is received by the 
Transmission Provider, unless the Interconnection Customer demonstrates that engineering, 
permitting, and construction of the Merchant Network Upgrade will take more than seven (7) 
years.  
 
The Transmission Provider shall maintain on the Transmission Provider’s website a list of all 
Upgrade Requests that identifies (A) in megawatts the potential nominal capability or increase in 
capability; (B) the station or transmission line or lines where the upgrade(s) will be made; (C) the 
proposed in-service date; (D) the status of the Upgrade Request, including its Queue Position; 
(E) the availability of any studies related to the Upgrade Request; (F) the date of the Upgrade 
Request; and (G) for each Upgrade Request that has not resulted in a completed upgrade, an 
explanation of why it was not completed. This list will not disclose the identity of the 
Interconnection Customer, except as otherwise provided in Tariff, Part VI.  The list and the 
priority of Upgrade Requests shall be included on the website as part of the New Services 
Queue. 
 
204.2.2.1  Acknowledgement of Upgrade Request for Merchant Network Upgrades 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.2 Upgrade Requests: 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 2 
The Transmission Provider shall acknowledge receipt (electronically when available to all 
parties, otherwise written) of the Upgrade Request within five (5) Business Days after receipt of 
the Upgrade Request. 
 
204.2.2.2  Deficiencies in Upgrade Request for Merchant Network Upgrades 
 
An Upgrade Request will not be considered a valid request if Interconnection Customer has 
failed to pay any outstanding invoices related to prior Queue Requests submitted pursuant to 
Tariff, Part IV or Tariff, Part VI by the Interconnection Customer and until all information 
required under Attachment EE is able to be studied by the Transmission Provider.  If an Upgrade 
Request fails to meet the requirements, except as provided below regarding the deposit, or is in 
arrears as described above, the Transmission Provider shall use Reasonable Efforts consistent 
with the volume of the New Services Queue to notify the Interconnection Customer 
(electronically when available to all parties, otherwise written) within fifteen (15) Business Days 
of receipt of the initial Upgrade Request.  If Transmission Provider is unable to provide a 
deficiency review within fifteen Business Days from receipt of the initial Upgrade Request, 
Transmission Provider shall use Reasonable Efforts to complete and issue the deficiency review 
to the Interconnection Customer as soon thereafter as practicable, but, in no event shall the 
Transmission Provider’s response herein serve as a basis to delaying Transmission Provider’s 
compliance with the Interconnection Feasibility Study provisions of the Tariff, Part IV, Subpart 
A, section 36.2, or the Upgrade Feasibility Study provisions of the Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, 
section 36.3.  Such notice shall explain that the Upgrade Request does not constitute a valid 
request and the reasons for such failure to meet the applicable requirements.  Interconnection 
Customer shall provide the additional information that the Transmission Provider’s notice 
identifies as needed to constitute a valid request and shall make any payments on any 
outstanding invoices within ten (10) Business Days after receipt of such notice.  Upon timely 
correction of the deficiency, the Upgrade Request shall be assigned a Queue Position under 
Tariff, Part VI, Preamble, section 201 as of the date that the Transmission Provider first received 
the request.  In the event the Interconnection Customer fails to provide the further information 
and make payments on any outstanding invoices required by the Transmission Provider’s 
deficiency notice under this section 204.2.2.2, its Upgrade Request shall be deemed to be 
terminated and withdrawn.  Notwithstanding the above, the Interconnection Customer must 
submit its deposit at the time it submits its Upgrade Request.  Failure to do so will result in 
rejection of the Upgrade Request. 
 
The Interconnection Customer must submit a complete and fully executed Upgrade Request 
(Tariff, Attachment EE) to the Transmission Provider by March 10 for the New Services Queue 
ending March 31, and by September 10 for the New Services Queue ending September 30.  No 
Upgrade Requests shall be accepted for the relevant New Services Queue after such dates. 
 
204.2.2.3  Scoping Meeting 
 
Transmission Provider shall provide each Interconnection Customer proposing Merchant 
Network Upgrades with an opportunity for a scoping meeting among the Transmission Provider, 
the prospective Interconnected Transmission Owner(s) and the Interconnection Customer.  The 
purpose of the scoping meeting will be to confirm all parties’ understanding of the proposed 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.2 Upgrade Requests: 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 3 
Upgrade Request and confirm the expectation for project completion or, if for acceleration of a 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan Network Upgrade, the feasibility of the acceleration. 
After receipt of a valid Upgrade Request proposing Merchant Network Upgrades, the 
Transmission Provider shall offer to arrange for the scoping meeting, and shall provide a 
minimum of three (3) suggested meeting dates and times for the scoping meeting. The scoping 
meeting shall be held, or waived by mutual agreement of the parties within forty-five (45) days 
after receipt of a valid Upgrade Request, if the Upgrade Request is received in the first four 
calendar months of the current New Services Queue; or within thirty (30) days if the Upgrade 
Request is received within the fifth calendar month of the current New Services Queue; or within 
twenty (20) days if the Upgrade Request is received in the sixth calendar month of the date of the 
beginning of the current New Services Queue. The Interconnection Customer may choose to 
divide the scoping meeting into two sessions, one between the Transmission Provider and 
Interconnection Customer and one among the Transmission Provider, the Interconnection 
Customer and the prospective Interconnected Transmission Owner.  Such meetings may be held 
consecutively on the same day.  Scoping meetings may be held in person, by telephone or video 
conference.  In the event the Interconnection Customer fails to waive or complete the scoping 
meeting requirement, its Upgrade Request shall be deemed terminated or withdrawn.  
Interconnection Customer may reduce its Upgrade Request within ten (10) Business Days after 
the scoping meeting.  Any reduction made within this ten (10) Business Day period shall not be a 
Material Modification; however, the reduction may not result in the project’s MW capability 
being equal to or less than zero. 
 
204.2.2.4  Coordination with Affected Systems 
 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.1.6 shall apply to Upgrade Requests for Merchant Network 
Upgrades. 
 
204.2.2.5  Base Case Data 
 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.1.7 shall apply to Upgrade Requests for Merchant Network 
Upgrades. 
 
204.2.2.6  System Impact Study Agreement 
 
Upon the Transmission Provider assigning the Upgrade Request a Queue Position per Tariff, Part 
VI, Subpart A, section 204.2.2, for Upgrade Requests proposing Merchant Network Upgrades, 
and, if required, completing a scoping meeting per Tariff, Part VI, Subpart A, section 204.2.2.3, 
Transmission Provider shall tender a System Impact Study Agreement.  For an Upgrade Request 
associated with a Merchant Network Upgrade request to retain its Queue Position, the 
Interconnection Customer (i) shall execute the System Impact Study Agreement and return it to 
the Transmission Provider within thirty (30) days, and (ii) the $50,000 deposit provided with 
Tariff, Attachment EE will be applied to the Interconnection Customer’s study cost 
responsibility.  If the Interconnection Customer elects not to execute the System Impact Study 
Agreement, its Upgrade Request shall be deemed terminated and withdrawn. Any remaining 
Tariff, Attachment EE deposit will be refunded. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.2 Upgrade Requests: 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 4 
204.2.2.7 Modifications of Upgrade Requests for Merchant Network Upgrades After the 
System Impact Study Agreement, but Prior to Executing an Upgrade 
Construction Service Agreement 
 
After the System Impact Study Agreement is executed and prior to execution of the Upgrade 
Construction Service Agreement, an Interconnection Customer proposing Merchant Network 
Upgrades may modify its project to reduce the size of the project as provided in Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart A, section 36.2A.2. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.3 Interconnection Requests: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
204.3 Interconnection Requests: 
 
Upon completion of the Interconnection Feasibility Study, the Transmission Provider shall 
tender to the affected Interconnection Customer a System Impact Study Agreement.  For an 
Interconnection Request to retain its assigned Queue Position pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, 
Preamble, section 201, within 30 days of receiving the tendered System Impact Study 
Agreement, the Interconnection Customer (i) shall execute the System Impact Study Agreement 
and it must be received by the Transmission Provider, (ii) shall remit to Transmission Provider 
all past due amounts of the actual Feasibility Study costs exceeding the Feasibility Study deposit 
fee contained in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, sections 36.1.02, and 36.1.03, and Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart G, sections 110.1, 111.1, and 112.1, if any, (iii) shall pay the Transmission Provider a 
deposit as provided in section 204.3A below, (iv) shall identify the Point(s) of Interconnection, 
and (v) in the case of a Generation Interconnection Customer, shall (A) demonstrate that it has 
made an initial application for the necessary air emission permits, if any, for its proposed 
generation, (B) specify whether it desires to interconnect its generation to the Transmission 
System as a Capacity Resource or an Energy Resource, (C) provide required machine modeling 
data as specified in the PJM Manuals, (D) in the case of a wind generation facility, provide a 
detailed electrical design specification and other data (including system layout data) as required 
by the Transmission Provider for completion of the System Impact Study, and (E) notify the 
Transmission Provider if it seeks to use Capacity Interconnection Rights in accordance with 
Tariff, Part VI, Subpart C, section 230.3.3; or, (vi) in the case of a Transmission Interconnection 
Customer, shall (A) provide Transmission Provider with evidence of an ownership interest in, or 
right to acquire or control, the site(s) where major equipment (e.g., a new transformer or D.C. 
converter stations) would be installed, such as a deed, option agreement, lease, or other similar 
document acceptable to the Transmission Provider; (B) demonstrate in a manner acceptable to 
Transmission Provider that it holds rights to use (or an option to obtain such rights) any existing 
facilities of the Transmission System that are necessary for construction of the proposed 
Merchant Transmission Facilities; and (C) provide required modeling data as specified in the 
PJM Manuals.  If an Interconnection Customer fails to comply with any of the applicable listed 
requirements, its Interconnection Request shall be deemed terminated and withdrawn, however 
in the event that the information required per (v)(C), (v)(D), or (vi)(C) above is provided and 
deemed to be deficient by the Transmission Provider, Interconnection Customer may provide 
additional information acceptable to the Transmission Provider within 10 Business Days.  
Failure of the Interconnection Customer to provide information identified as being deficient 
within 10 Business Days shall result in the Interconnection Request being terminated and 
withdrawn.  If a terminated and withdrawn Interconnection Request was to be included in a 
System Impact Study evaluating more than one New Service Request, then the costs of the 
System Impact Study shall be redetermined and reallocated among the remaining participating 
New Service Customers as specified in this section 204. 
 
204.3A  Deposits for Interconnection Customers 
 
1. Provided that the maximum total deposit amount for a System Impact Study shall 
be $300,000 regardless of the size of the proposed Customer Facility, a System 
Impact Study deposit shall be submitted to Transmission Provider, as follows: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.3 Interconnection Requests: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
a. For a proposed Customer Facility that is 20 MW or greater, a deposit of 
$500 for each MW requested; or 
 
b. For a proposed Customer Facility that is 2 MW or greater, but less than 20 
MW, a deposit of $10,000; or 
 
c. For a proposed Customer Facility that is less than 2 MW, a deposit of 
$5,000. 
 
2. 10% of each total System Impact Study deposit amount is non-refundable.  Any 
unused non-refundable deposit monies shall be returned to the Interconnection 
Customer upon Initial Operation.  However, if, before reaching Initial Operation, 
the Interconnection Customer withdraws its Interconnection Request or the 
Interconnection Request is otherwise deemed rejected or terminated and 
withdrawn, any unused portion of the non-refundable deposit monies shall be 
used to fund: 
 
a. Any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices due to Transmission Provider, 
Interconnected Transmission Owner(s) and/or third party contractors, as 
applicable, as a result of any failure of the Interconnection Customer to 
pay actual costs for the Interconnection Request and/or associated Queue 
Position; and/or 
 
b. Any restudies required as a result of the rejection, termination and/or 
withdrawal of such Interconnection Request; and/or 
 
c. Any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices related to prior Interconnection 
Requests by the Interconnection Customer. 
 
3. 90% of each total System Impact Study deposit amount is refundable, and the 
Transmission Provider shall utilize, in no particular order, the refundable portion 
of each total System Impact Study deposit amount to cover the following: 
 
a. The cost of the System Impact Study acceptance review; and 
 
b. The dollar amount of the Interconnection Customer’s cost responsibility 
for the System Impact Study; and 
 
c. If the System Impact Study Request is deemed to be modified (pursuant to 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2A), rejected, terminated and/or 
withdrawn during the deficiency review and/or deficiency response 
period, as described further below, or during the System Impact Study 
period, the refundable deposit money shall be applied to cover all of the 
costs incurred by the Transmission Provider up to the point of such request 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.3 Interconnection Requests: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
being modified, rejected, terminated and/or withdrawn, and any remaining 
refundable deposit monies shall be applied to cover: 
 
i. The costs of any restudies required as a result of the modification, 
rejection, termination and/or withdrawal of such request; and/or 
 
ii. Any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices due to Transmission 
Provider, Interconnected Transmission Owner(s) and/or third party 
contractors, as applicable, as a result of any failure of the 
Interconnection Customer to pay actual costs for the System 
Impact Study Request and/or associated Queue Position; and/or 
 
iii. Any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices related to prior New Service 
Requests and/or Interconnection Requests by such customer. 
 
iv. If any refundable deposit monies remain after all costs and 
outstanding monies owed, as described in this section, are covered, 
such remaining refundable deposit monies shall be returned to the 
customer in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  
 
4. Upon completion of the System Impact Study, the Transmission Provider shall 
apply any remaining refundable deposit monies toward: 
 
a. The cost responsibility of the Interconnection Customer for any other 
studies conducted for the Interconnection Request; and/or 
 
b. Any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices related to prior New Service 
Requests and/or Interconnection Requests by such Interconnection 
Customer. 
 
5. If any refundable deposit monies remain after the System Impact Study is 
complete and any outstanding monies owed by the Interconnection Customer in 
connection with outstanding invoices related to prior New Service Requests 
and/or Interconnection Requests by such Interconnection Customer have been 
paid, such remaining deposit monies shall be returned to the Interconnection 
Customer. 
 
6. The Interconnection Customer must submit the total required deposit amount with 
the System Impact Study Request.  If the Interconnection Customer fails to 
submit the total required deposit amount with the System Impact Study Request, 
the System Impact Study Request shall be deemed to be terminated and 
withdrawn. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 204 Tender of System Impact Study 
Agreement: --> OATT 204.3 Interconnection Requests: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 4 
7. Deposit monies are non-transferrable.  Under no circumstances may refundable or 
non-refundable deposit monies for a specific Interconnection Request, Upgrade 
Request or Queue Position be applied in whole or in part to a different New 
Service Request, Interconnection Request or Queue Position. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.1 Coordination: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
205.1 Coordination: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall coordinate, to the extent practical, all System Impact Studies 
conducted pursuant to this section 205 for New Service Customers. Such coordination may 
involve, at the Transmission Provider’s sole discretion, combining System Impact Studies for 
multiple New Service Requests into one study.  Transmission Provider shall describe in the PJM 
Manuals the process by which it will coordinate System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies 
pertaining to different types of New Service Requests. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.2 Scope of Studies: 
Effective Date: 7/20/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-003 - Page 1 
205.2 Scope of Studies: 
 
The System Impact Study is a comprehensive regional analysis of the effect of adding to the 
Transmission System the new facilities and services contemporaneously proposed by New 
Service Customers and an evaluation of their impact on deliverability to the aggregate of PJM 
Network Load.  The System Impact Study identifies the system constraints, identified with 
specificity by transmission element or flowgate, relating to each proposed new project and 
service included therein and the Attachment Facilities, Merchant Network Upgrades, Direct 
Assignment Facilities, Local Upgrades, Network Upgrades, and/or Contingent Facilities required 
to accommodate such projects.  The System Impact Study provides refined and comprehensive 
estimates of cost responsibility and construction lead times for new facilities and system 
upgrades. The Transmission Provider, in its sole discretion, may determine to evaluate in the 
same System Impact Study two or more New Service Requests relating to interconnections, 
Upgrade Requests, or proposed new transmission services where the associated increases in 
service or capability are in electrical proximity to each other.  The scope of the System Impact 
Study may include (a) an assessment of sub-area import deliverability, (b) an assessment of sub-
area export deliverability, (c) an assessment of project related short circuit duty issues, (d) a 
contingency analysis consistent with NERC’s and each Applicable Regional Entity’s reliability 
criteria, (e) an assessment of regional transmission upgrades that most effectively meet identified 
needs, and (f) an analysis to determine cost allocation responsibility for required facilities and 
upgrades.  In addition, each System Impact Study shall identify the system constraints, identified 
with specificity by transmission element or flowgate in accordance with the distribution factor 
effect, megawatt contribution or fault duty contribution, relating to the New Service Requests 
being evaluated in the study and, as applicable to each included request, the redispatch options, 
additional Direct Assignment Facilities, necessary Merchant Network Upgrades, Attachment 
Facilities, Local Upgrades, Network Upgrades and/or Contingent Facilities necessary to 
accommodate such request.  For purposes of determining necessary Interconnection Facilities 
and Network Upgrades, the System Impact Study shall consider the level of Interconnection 
Service requested by the Interconnection Customer unless otherwise required to study the full 
electrical generating capability of the Generating Facility due to safety or reliability concerns.  
The System Impact Study report shall include the list and facility loading of all newly-identified 
reliability criteria violations or contributions to a previously-identified reliability criteria 
violation specific to the New Service Request.  The System Impact Study shall refine and more 
comprehensively estimate each New Service Customer's cost responsibility (determined in 
accordance with Tariff, Part VI, Subpart B, section 217) for necessary facilities and upgrades 
than the estimates provided in the Interconnection Feasibility Study or the Firm Transmission 
Feasibility Study, if applicable. In the event that more than one New Service Request is 
evaluated in a study, the Transmission Provider may provide a series of estimates to each 
participating New Service Customer to reflect the customer's estimated cost responsibility based 
on varying assumptions regarding the number of New Service Customers that decide to continue 
their New Service Requests after completion of the System Impact Study. A description of the 
Transmission Provider’s methodology for completing a System Impact Study for Completed 
Applications is provided in Tariff, Attachment D.  If applicable, the System Impact Study for a 
Transmission Interconnection Customer shall also include a preliminary estimate of the 
Incremental Deliverability Rights associated with the customer’s proposed Merchant 
Transmission Facilities. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.2 Scope of Studies: 
Effective Date: 7/20/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-003 - Page 2 
 
205.2.1 Contingent Facilities 
 
Transmission Provider shall identify the Contingent Facilities to be provided to Interconnection 
Customer in the System Impact Study by reviewing unbuilt Interconnection Facilities and/or 
Network Upgrades (including those still subject to cost allocation in accordance with the PJM 
Manuals) associated with another Interconnection Customer with a higher queue priority upon 
which the Interconnection Customer’s cost, timing and study findings are dependent and, if 
delayed or not built, could cause a need for interconnection restudies of the Interconnection 
Request or reassessment of the unbuilt Interconnection Facilities and/or Network Upgrades.  The 
method for identifying Contingent Facilities shall be sufficiently transparent to determine why a 
specific Contingent Facility was identified and how it relates to the Interconnection Request.  
Transmission Provider shall include the list of the Contingent Facilities in the System Impact 
Study, Facilities Study, if applicable, and Interconnection Service Agreement, including why a 
specific Contingent Facility was identified and how it relates to the Interconnection Request.  
Transmission Provider shall also provide, upon request of the Interconnection Customer, the 
estimated Interconnection Facility and/or Network Upgrade costs and estimated in-service 
completion time of each identified Contingent Facility when this information is readily available 
and non-commercially sensitive. 
 
205.2.2 Minimum Thresholds to Identify Contingent Facilities 
 
205.2.2.1 Load Flow Violations 
 
Load flow violations will be identified based on the following criteria: (i) the first New Service 
Request to load a facility to over 100 percent of the rating in the applicable model; and (ii) an 
impact on a previously identified overload of at least 5 percent distribution factor (DFAX) or 
contributing at least 5 percent of the facility rating in the applicable model. 
 
205.2.2.2 Short Circuit Violations 
 
Short circuit violations will be identified based on the following criteria: (i) the first New Service 
Request to load any facility to over 100 percent of the rating in the applicable model; and (ii) any 
contribution to a previously overloaded facility where the New Service Request increases the 
fault current impact by 3 percent or greater of the rating in the applicable model. 
 
205.2.2.3 Stability and Dynamic Criteria Violations 
 
Stability and dynamic criteria violations will be identified based on the following criteria: (i) the 
first New Service Request to cause a new stability violation; and (ii) any contribution to a 
previously identified stability violation. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.3 Timing of Studies: 
Effective Date: 10/31/2016 - Docket #: ER16-2518-000 - Page 1 
205.3 Timing of Studies: 
 
 
The following provision shall apply to all New Service Requests submitted on May 1, 2012 
through and including October 31, 2016: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall conduct System Impact Studies each year commencing on (i) 
June 1, for New Service Requests received between May 1 and October 31 of the previous year, 
(ii) December 1, for New Service Requests received between November 1 of the previous year, 
and April 30 of the same year.  The Transmission Provider shall use due diligence to complete 
the System Impact Studies within 120 days of the date the study commences.  In the event that 
the Transmission Provider is unable to complete a System Impact Study within the applicable 
indicated time period, it shall so notify the affected New Service Customers and the affected 
Transmission Owner(s) and provide an estimated completion date, along with an explanation of 
the reasons why additional time is needed to complete the study.  The Transmission Provider 
shall use the same due diligence in completing the System Impact Study for a New Service 
Customer as it uses when completing studies for a Transmission Owner. 
 
The following provision shall apply to all New Service Requests submitted on November 1, 
2016 through and including March 31, 2017: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall conduct System Impact Studies commencing on November 1, 
for New Service Requests received between October 1 of the previous year, and March 31 of the 
same year.  The Transmission Provider shall use due diligence to complete the System Impact 
Studies within 120 days of the date the study commences.  In the event that the Transmission 
Provider is unable to complete a System Impact Study within the applicable indicated time 
period, it shall so notify the affected New Service Customers and the affected Transmission 
Owner(s) and provide an estimated completion date, along with an explanation of the reasons 
why additional time is needed to complete the study.  The Transmission Provider shall use the 
same due diligence in completing the System Impact Study for a New Service Customer as it 
uses when completing studies for a Transmission Owner. 
 
The following provision shall apply to all New Service Requests submitted on or after April 1, 
2017: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall conduct System Impact Studies each year commencing on (i) 
May 1, for New Service Requests received between April 1 and September 30 of the previous 
year, (ii) November 1, for New Service Requests received between October 1 of the previous 
year, and March 31 of the same year.  The Transmission Provider shall use due diligence to 
complete the System Impact Studies within 120 days of the date the study commences.  In the 
event that the Transmission Provider is unable to complete a System Impact Study within the 
applicable indicated time period, it shall so notify the affected New Service Customers and the 
affected Transmission Owner(s) and provide an estimated completion date, along with an 
explanation of the reasons why additional time is needed to complete the study.  The 
Transmission Provider shall use the same due diligence in completing the System Impact Study 
for a New Service Customer as it uses when completing studies for a Transmission Owner. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.4 Completion of Studies: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
205.4 Completion of Studies: 
 
205.4.1 Notice to Eligible Customers: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall notify each Eligible Customer whose Completed Application 
for new transmission service was included in the System Impact Study upon completion of the 
System Impact Study whether the Transmission System will be adequate to accommodate all or 
part of the request for service. In the event that the System Impact Study indicates that no new 
transmission facilities or upgrades are needed to accommodate the requested service, in order for 
the Completed Application to retain its Queue Position, within sixty (60) days of completion of 
the System Impact Study, the Eligible Customer must execute a Service Agreement or request 
the filing of an unexecuted Service Agreement pursuant to Tariff, Part II, section 15.3 or Tariff, 
Part III, section 32.4, as applicable, or the Completed Application shall be deemed terminated 
and withdrawn. 
 
205.4.2 Materials for Customers: 
 
The Transmission Provider shall provide a copy of the System Impact Study and, to the extent 
consistent with the Office of the Interconnection's confidentiality obligations in Operating 
Agreement, section 18.17, related work papers to all New Service Customers that had New 
Service Requests evaluated in the study and to the affected Transmission Owner(s). 
 
205.4.3 Availability of Information: 
 
Upon completion of the System Impact Study, the Transmission Provider shall post on the 
Transmission Provider's OASIS (i) the existence of the study, (ii) the New Service Customers 
that had New Service Requests evaluated in the study, (iii) the location and size in megawatts of 
each New Service Customer's project or requested rights, as applicable, and (iv) each New 
Service Customer's Queue Position.  The Transmission Provider also shall, to the extent required 
by the Commission's regulations, make the completed System Impact Study publicly available 
upon request. 
 
205.4.4 Meeting with Transmission Provider: 
 
At the New Service Customer’s request, Transmission Provider, the affected Transmission 
Owner(s) and the New Service Customer shall meet to discuss the results of the System Impact 
Study.  Such meeting may occur in person or by telephone or video conference. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 205 System Impact Study Procedures: 
--> OATT 205.5 Re-Study: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
205.5 Re-Study: 
 
If a re-study of the System Impact Study is required due to a higher queued New Service Request 
dropping out of the queue, a modification of a higher queued New Service Request subject to 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2A, or re-designation of the Point of Interconnection of an 
Interconnection Request pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, sections 36.2.1 or 36.2A, the 
Transmission Provider shall notify the affected New Service Customer(s) in writing explaining 
the reason for the re-study. Transmission Provider shall use due diligence to complete such re-
study within sixty (60) calendar days from the date of the notice.  Any cost of re-study shall be 
borne by the New Service Customer(s) being restudied. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 206 Facilities Study Agreement: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
206  Facilities Study Agreement: 
 
Upon completion of the System Impact Study, the Transmission Provider, if it determines that a 
Facilities Study is required, shall tender to the affected New Service Customer(s) a Facilities 
Study Agreement in the form included in Tariff, Attachment N-2.  Transmission Provider, in its 
sole discretion, may determine to evaluate multiple New Service Requests in the same Facilities 
Study.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 206 Facilities Study Agreement: --> 
OATT 206.1 Study Agreement: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
206.1 Study Agreement: 
 
Pursuant to the Facilities Study Agreement, the New Service Customer shall agree to reimburse 
the Transmission Provider for the cost of a Facilities Study.  The Transmission Provider shall 
provide the New Service Customer with an estimate of the time needed to complete the Facilities 
Study, the cost of the study, and, if more than one New Service Request is being evaluated in the 
study, the New Service Customer's allocated share of the costs.  The Facilities Study Agreement 
also may contain reasonable milestone dates that an Interconnection Customer's project must 
meet for the customer’s Interconnection Request to retain its assigned Queue Position pursuant 
to Tariff, Part VI, Preamble, section 201 while the Transmission Provider is completing the 
Facilities Study. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 206 Facilities Study Agreement: --> 
OATT 206.2 Retaining Queue Position: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
206.2 Retaining Queue Position: 
 
For a New Service Request to retain its assigned Queue Position pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, 
Preamble, section 201, within 30 days of issuing the System Impact Study, the Transmission 
Provider must be in receipt of (i) all past due amounts of the actual System Impact Study costs 
exceeding the System Impact Study deposits contained in Tariff, Part VI, Subpart A, section 
204.3A, if any, (ii) the executed Facilities Study Agreement and, (iii) the deposit required under 
this section 206.  If a participating New Service Customer fails to remit past due amounts, 
execute the Facilities Study Agreement or to pay the deposit required under this section 206, its 
New Service Request shall be deemed terminated and withdrawn. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 206 Facilities Study Agreement: --> 
OATT 206.3 Deposit: 
Effective Date: 4/23/2018 - Docket #: ER18-893-000 - Page 1 
206.3 Deposit:   
 
At the time the New Service Customer executes the Facilities Study Agreement, the New Service 
Customer shall pay a refundable deposit in the amount of $100,000 or the estimated amount of 
its Facilities Study cost responsibility for the first three months of work on the study, whichever 
is greater. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for an Interconnection Customer with a proposed 
Customer Facility that is: (a) equal to or less than 20 MW but greater than 2 MW shall pay a 
refundable deposit in the amount of $50,000; or (b) equal to or less than 2 MW shall pay a 
refundable deposit in the amount of $15,000. Transmission Provider shall retain the deposit until 
settlement of the final invoice for the Facilities Study, provided, however, in the event that the 
total estimated cost of the Facilities Study does not exceed the amount of the deposit required 
under this section, then the deposit may be applied for payment of invoices for the cost of the 
study.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the event and to the extent that the sum of (i) 
the aggregate amount timely paid by the New Service Customer pursuant to invoices for the cost 
of the Facilities Study, and (ii) the amount of the deposit provided by the customer, exceeds 
125% of the New Service Customer’s total estimated cost responsibility for such study, the 
customer’s deposit shall be applied for payment of invoices for the cost of the study. Application 
of the New Service Customer’s deposit in this manner shall not reduce or otherwise affect its 
liability for the full cost of the Facilities Study or its full allocated share thereof. Remaining 
deposit monies, if any, will be returned at the completion of the study or upon withdrawal of the 
Interconnection Request. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 206 Facilities Study Agreement: --> 
OATT 206.4 Allocation of Costs: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
206.4  Allocation of Costs:  
 
In the event more than one New Service Request is being evaluated in a single Facilities Study, 
the cost of such study shall be allocated among the participating New Service Customers such 
that (i) each Interconnection Customer pays 100 percent of the study costs associated with 
evaluating the Attachment Facilities necessary to accommodate its Interconnection Request; (ii) 
each Eligible Customer pays 100 percent of the study costs associated with evaluating the Direct 
Assignment Facilities necessary to accommodate its Completed Application for new 
transmission service; and (iii) each New Service Customer pays the study costs associated with 
evaluating the Local Upgrades and/or Network Upgrades necessary to accommodate its New 
Service Request in proportion to its projected cost responsibility (as determined in the System 
Impact Study) for such upgrades.  Each New Service Customer’s cost responsibility shall equal 
its estimated cost responsibility for the work on the Facilities Study scheduled to be completed 
during each three-month period after such work commences.  Transmission Provider’s estimates 
of the required quarterly payments will be stated in the Facilities Study Agreement.  If a 
terminated and withdrawn New Service Request was to be included in a Facilities Study 
evaluating more than one request, then the costs of the Facilities Study shall be redetermined and 
reallocated among the remaining participating New Service Customers. 
 
206.4.1 Invoices and Payment: 
 
Except in instances when the total estimated cost of the Facilities Study does not exceed the 
amount of the deposit required under Tariff, Part VI, Subpart A, section 206.3, Transmission 
Provider shall invoice New Service Customer on a quarterly basis for work to be conducted on 
the Facilities Study during the subsequent three months.  The initial invoice shall be delivered 
prior to the start of work and shall be for the cost of work scheduled to be completed during the 
first three months after work commences. New Service Customer shall pay invoiced amounts 
within twenty (20) days of receipt of the invoice.  Transmission Provider shall continue to hold 
the amounts on deposit until settlement of the final invoice. 
 
206.4.1.1 Reconciliation of Costs:   
 
New Service Customer may request in writing, prior to or at the time of execution of the 
Facilities Study Agreement that the Transmission Provider provide a quarterly cost reconciliation 
provision in the Facilities Study Agreement.  Such quarterly cost reconciliation will have a one-
quarter lag, e.g., reconciliation of costs for the first calendar quarter of work will be provided at 
the start of the third calendar quarter of work, provided, however, that Section 12.B of the 
Facilities Study Agreement shall govern the timing of the final cost reconciliation upon 
completion of the study. 
 
206.4.1.2 Failure to Pay:   
 
In the event that a New Service Customer fails to make timely payment of any invoice for work 
on the Facilities Study, its New Service Request shall be deemed to be terminated and withdrawn 
as of the date when payment was due. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 206 Facilities Study Agreement: --> 
OATT 206.5 Estimates of Certain Upgrade-Related Rights: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
206.5  Estimates of Certain Upgrade-Related Rights: 
 
206.5.1 Incremental Available Transfer Capability Revenue Rights:   
 
The New Service Customer may request Transmission Provider to provide a non-binding 
estimate in the Facilities Study of the Incremental Available Transfer Capability Revenue Rights 
associated with the required facilities or upgrades for which the New Service Customer has cost 
responsibility.  The ultimate assignment of Incremental Available Transfer Capability Revenue 
Rights associated with the required facilities or upgrades for which the New Service Customer 
has cost responsibility will be made pursuant to the process set forth in Tariff, Part VI, Subpart 
C, section 233. 
 
206.5.2 Incremental Auction Revenue Rights:   
 
The New Service Customer may request Transmission Provider to provide a non-binding 
estimate in the Facilities Study of the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights associated with the 
required facilities or upgrades for which the New Service Customer has cost responsibility on up 
to three (3) pairs of point-to-point combinations.  The ultimate assignment of Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights associated with the required facilities or upgrades for which the New 
Service Customer has cost responsibility will be made pursuant to the allocation process set forth 
in Tariff, Part VI, Subpart C, section 231 and may depend upon the point-to-point combination 
requests and cost responsibilities of other New Service Customers. 
 
206.5.3 Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights:   
 
The assignment of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights 
associated with new Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities will be made in accordance with Tariff, Part VI, Subpart C, section 232 
and may depend upon the capabilities of facilities and upgrades necessary to accommodate other 
New Service Requests. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 207 Facilities Study Procedures: 
Effective Date: 7/20/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-002 - Page 1 
207 Facilities Study Procedures:   
 
The Transmission Provider will conduct Facilities Studies relating to the New Service Requests 
that were evaluated in the corresponding System Impact Studies, to the extent such New Service 
Requests have not been terminated and withdrawn. The Transmission Provider shall use 
Reasonable Efforts to complete the Facilities Study and issue it to a New Service Customer 
within 180 days after receipt of an executed Facilities Study Agreement.  If Transmission 
Provider determines that it will not meet the 180 day time frame for completing the Facilities 
Study, Transmission Provider shall notify New Service Customer as to the scheduled status of 
the Facilities Study.  If Transmission Provider is unable to complete the Facilities Study and 
issue a Facilities Study within 180 days, it shall notify New Service Customer and provide an 
estimated completion date and an explanation of the reasons why additional time is required. 
When completed, the Facilities Studies will include, commensurate with the degree of 
engineering specificity on which the New Service Customer and Transmission Provider mutually 
agree as provided in the Facilities Study Agreement, good faith estimates of the cost, determined 
in accordance with Tariff, Part VI, Subpart B, section 217, (a) to be charged to each affected 
New Service Customer for the (i) Attachment Facilities, Merchant Network Upgrades or Direct 
Assignment Facilities, and (ii) the Local Upgrades and/or Network Upgrades that are necessary 
to accommodate each New Service Request evaluated in the study; (b) the time required to 
complete detailed design and construction of the facilities and upgrades; (c) a description of any 
site-specific environmental issues or requirements that could reasonably be anticipated to affect 
the cost or time required to complete construction of such facilities and upgrades; and (d) an 
assessment of project related system stability issues, if necessary. The Facilities Study will 
document the engineering design work necessary to begin construction of any required 
transmission facilities, including estimating the costs of the equipment, engineering, procurement 
and construction work needed to implement the conclusions of the System Impact Study in 
accordance with Good Utility Practice and, when applicable, identifying the electrical switching 
configuration of the connection equipment, including without limitation: the transformer, 
switchgear, meters, and other station equipment; and the nature and estimated costs of 
Attachment Facilities, Merchant Network Upgrades, Direct Assignment Facilities, Local 
Upgrades and/or Network Upgrades necessary to accommodate the New Service Request.  For 
purposes of determining necessary Interconnection Facilities and Network Upgrades, the 
Facilities Study shall consider the level of Interconnection Service requested by the 
Interconnection Customer unless otherwise required to study the full electrical power generating 
capability of the Generating Facility due to safety or reliability concerns.  The Facilities Study 
will also identify any potential control equipment for requests for Interconnection Service that 
are lower than the full electrical generating capability of the Generating Facility.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 207 Facilities Study Procedures: --> 
OATT 207.1 Meeting with Transmission Provider: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
207.1 Meeting with Transmission Provider:   
 
At New Service Customer’s request, Transmission Provider, the affected Transmission Owner(s) 
and New Service Customer shall meet to discuss the results of the Facilities Study.  Such 
meeting may occur in person or by telephone or video conference. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 207 Facilities Study Procedures: --> 
OATT 207.2 Re-Study: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
207.2 Re-Study:   
 
If re-study of the Facilities Study is required due to a higher queued New Service Request 
dropping out of the queue or a modification of a higher queued New Service Request subject to 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2A, the Transmission Provider shall notify the New 
Service Customer in writing explaining the reason for the re-study.  Transmission Provider shall 
use due diligence to complete such re-study within sixty (60) calendar days from the date of the 
notice.  Any cost of re-study shall be borne by the New Service Customer being restudied. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 207 Facilities Study Procedures: --> 
OATT 207.3 Facilities Study Modifications: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
207.3 Facilities Study Modifications:   
 
Any change in design arising from inability to site or construct facilities as proposed will require 
development of a revised good faith estimate.  New good faith estimates also will be required in 
the event of new statutory or regulatory requirements that are effective before the completion of 
construction or other circumstances beyond the control of the Transmission Provider or the 
affected Transmission Owners that significantly affect the final cost of new facilities or upgrades 
to be charged to the New Service Customer pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Tariff. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 208 Expedited Procedures for Part II 
Requests: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
208 Expedited Procedures for Part II Requests:   
 
In lieu of the procedures set forth above, an Eligible Customer pursuing a Completed 
Application under Tariff, Part II shall have the option to expedite the process by requesting the 
Transmission Provider to tender at one time, together with the results of required studies, an 
“Expedited Service Agreement” pursuant to which the Eligible Customer would agree to 
compensate the Transmission Provider or the affected Transmission Owner(s) for all costs 
incurred pursuant to the terms of the Tariff for purposes of accommodating such customer’s 
Completed Application.  In order to exercise this option, the Eligible Customer shall request in 
writing an expedited Service Agreement covering all of the above-specified items within thirty 
(30) days of receiving the results of the System Impact Study identifying needed facility 
additions or upgrades or costs to be incurred in providing the requested service. While the 
Transmission Provider agrees to provide the Eligible Customer with its best estimate (determined 
in coordination with the affected Transmission Owner(s)) of the new facility costs and other 
charges that may be incurred, such estimate shall not be binding and the Eligible Customer must 
agree in writing to compensate the Transmission Provider and the affected Transmission 
Owner(s) for all costs incurred pursuant to the provisions of the Tariff.  The Eligible Customer 
shall execute and return such an Expedited Service Agreement within fifteen (15) days of its 
receipt or the Eligible Customer’s request for service will cease to be a Completed Application 
and will be deemed terminated and withdrawn. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 209 Optional Interconnection Studies: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
209 Optional Interconnection Studies:   
 
Transmission Provider will undertake Optional Interconnection Studies for Interconnection 
Customers in accordance with the provisions of this section. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 209 Optional Interconnection Studies: 
--> OATT 209.1 Optional Interconnection Study Agreement: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
209.1 Optional Interconnection Study Agreement:  
 
Within 30 days from the date when the Interconnection Customer receives the results of the 
System Impact Study, the Interconnection Customer may request, and upon such request, the 
Transmission Provider shall perform, up to two Optional Interconnection Studies.  A request for 
such a study shall describe the assumptions that the Interconnection Customer wishes the 
Transmission Provider to study within the scope described in Tariff, Part VI, Subpart A, section 
209.2.  Within ten (10) Business Days after receipt of a request for an Optional Interconnection 
Study, the Transmission Provider shall provide to the Interconnection Customer an Optional 
Interconnection Study Agreement in the form included in Tariff, Attachment N-3. 
 
209.1.1  
 
The Optional Interconnection Study Agreement shall: (i) specify the technical data that the 
Interconnection Customer must provide for each phase of the Optional Interconnection Study, 
(ii) specify Interconnection Customer’s assumptions regarding any Interconnection Requests 
with earlier Queue Positions that will be excluded from the Optional Interconnection Study case 
and assumptions as to the type of interconnection service for Interconnection Requests remaining 
in the Optional Interconnection Study case, and (iii) the Transmission Provider’s estimate of the 
cost of the Optional Interconnection Study. To the extent known by the Transmission Provider, 
such estimate shall include any costs expected to be incurred by an Affected System whose 
participation is necessary to complete the Optional Interconnection Study.  Notwithstanding the 
above, the Transmission Provider shall not be required as a result of a request for an Optional 
Interconnection Study to conduct any additional New Service Studies with respect to any other 
New Service Request. 
 
209.1.2  
 
The Interconnection Customer shall execute and deliver the Optional Interconnection Study 
Agreement, along with the required technical data, and the greater of a $10,000 deposit or the 
estimated study cost to the Transmission Provider within ten (10) Business Days of the 
Interconnection Customer’s receipt of such agreement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 209 Optional Interconnection Studies: 
--> OATT 209.2 Scope of Optional Interconnection Study: 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
209.2 Scope of Optional Interconnection Study:   
 
The Optional Interconnection Study will consist of a sensitivity analysis based on the 
assumptions specified by the Interconnection Customer in the Optional Interconnection Study 
Agreement.  The Optional Interconnection Study will identify the Network Upgrades and Local 
Upgrades and the estimated cost thereof, that may be required to provide Interconnection 
Service, based upon the results of the Optional Interconnection Study.  The Optional 
Interconnection Study shall be performed solely for informational purposes.  The Transmission 
Provider shall use Reasonable Efforts to coordinate the study with any Affected Systems that 
may be affected by the types of Interconnection Service that are being studied.  The 
Transmission Provider shall utilize existing studies to the extent practicable in conducting the 
Optional Interconnection Study.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT Subpart A – System Impact Studies and Facilities Studie --> OATT 209 Optional Interconnection Studies: 
--> OATT 209.3 Optional Interconnection Study Procedures: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
209.3 Optional Interconnection Study Procedures:   
 
The Transmission Provider shall use Reasonable Efforts to complete the Optional 