[PART IV-INTERCONNECTIONS - Part 2 of 4]

the Interconnection Feasibility Studies on May 1.  In the event that the Transmission Provider is 
unable to complete an Interconnection Feasibility Study within such time period, it shall so 
notify the affected Interconnection Customer and the affected Transmission Owner(s) and 
provide an estimated completion date along with an explanation of the reasons why additional 
time is needed to complete the study. 
 
The following applies to Interconnection Requests received on or after April 1, 2017: 
 
For Interconnection Requests received during the six-month period ending September 30, the 
Transmission Provider shall use due diligence to complete Interconnection Feasibility Studies by 
January 31.  For Interconnection Requests received during the six-month period ending March 
31, the Transmission Provider shall use due diligence to complete Interconnection Feasibility 
Studies by July 31.  Following the closure of the relevant New Services Queues on September 30 
and March 31, respectively, the Transmission Provider will utilize the following months of 
October and April, respectively, to conduct any remaining scoping meetings and assemble the 
necessary analysis models so as to initiate the performance of the Interconnection Feasibility 
Studies on November 1 and May 1, respectively.  In the event that the Transmission Provider is 
unable to complete an Interconnection Feasibility Study within such time period, it shall so 
notify the affected Interconnection Customer and the affected Transmission Owner(s) and 
provide an estimated completion date along with an explanation of the reasons why additional 
time is needed to complete the study. 
 
36.2.1 Substitute Point:   
 
If the Interconnection Feasibility Study reveals any result(s) not reasonably expected at the time 
of the Scoping Meeting, a substitute Point of Interconnection identified by the Interconnection 
Customer, Transmission Provider, or the Interconnected Transmission Owner, and acceptable to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 36 Interconnection Requests --> OATT 36.2 
Interconnection Feasibility Study 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
the others, but which would not be a Material Modification, will be substituted for the Point of 
Interconnection identified in the Interconnection Feasibility Study Agreement.  The substitute 
Point of Interconnection will be effected without loss of Queue Position and will be utilized in 
the ensuing System Impact Study. 
 
36.2.2 Meeting with Transmission Provider:   
 
At the Interconnection Customer’s request, Transmission Provider, the Interconnection Customer 
and the Interconnected Transmission Owner shall meet at a mutually agreeable time to discuss 
the results of the Interconnection Feasibility Study.  Such meeting may occur in person or by 
telephone or video conference.   
 
36.2.3 [Reserved] 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 36 Interconnection Requests --> OATT 36.2A 
Modification of Interconnection Request 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
36.2A Modification of Interconnection Request:   
 
The Interconnection Customer shall submit to the Transmission Provider, in writing, any 
modification to its project that causes the project’s capacity, location, configuration or 
technology to differ from any corresponding information provided in the Interconnection 
Request.  The Interconnection Customer shall retain its Queue Position if the modification is in 
accordance with Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, sections 36.2A.1, 36.2A.3, or 36.2A.6, or, if not in 
accordance with one of those sections, is determined not to be a Material Modification pursuant 
to Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2A.4 below.  Notwithstanding the above, during the 
course of the Interconnection Studies, the Interconnection Customer, the Interconnected 
Transmission Owner, or Transmission Provider may identify changes to the planned 
interconnection that may improve the costs and benefits (including reliability) of the 
interconnection, and the ability of the proposed change to accommodate the Interconnection 
Request.  To the extent the identified changes are acceptable to the Transmission Provider and 
Interconnection Customer, such acceptance not to be unreasonably withheld, Transmission 
Provider shall modify the project’s Point of Interconnection, capacity, and/or configuration in 
accordance with such changes and shall proceed with any re-studies that Transmission Provider 
finds necessary in accordance with Tariff, Part VI, Subpart A, section 205.5 and/or Tariff, Part 
VI, Subpart A, section 207.2, as applicable, provided, however, that a change to the Point of 
Interconnection shall be permitted without loss of Queue Position only if it would not be a 
Material Modification. 
 
The following language for these sections 36.2A.1 and 36.2A.3 below apply to Interconnection 
Requests which have entered the New Services Queue prior to May 1, 2012: 
 
36.2A.1 Prior to return of the executed System Impact Study Agreement to the 
Transmission Provider, an Interconnection Customer may modify its project to reduce by 
up to 60 percent the electrical output (MW) (in the case of a Generation Interconnection 
Request) or by up to 60 percent of the transmission capability (in the case of a 
Transmission Interconnection Request) of the proposed project. For increases in 
generating capacity or transmission capability, the Interconnection Customer must submit 
a new Interconnection Request for the additional capability and shall be assigned a new 
Queue Position for the additional capability. 
 
36.2A.2 After the System Impact Study Agreement is executed and prior to execution of 
the Interconnection Service Agreement, an Interconnection Customer may modify its 
project to reduce the electrical output (MW) (in the case of a Generation Interconnection 
Request) or the transmission capability (in the case of a Transmission Interconnection 
Request) of the proposed project by up to the larger of 20 percent of the capability 
considered in the System Impact Study or 50 MW. 
 
The following language for these sections 36.2A.1 and 36.2A.3 below apply to Interconnection 
Requests which have entered the New Services Queue on or after May 1, 2012: 
 
36.2A.1   Modifications Prior to Executing A System Impact Study Agreement  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 36 Interconnection Requests --> OATT 36.2A 
Modification of Interconnection Request 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
36.2A.1.1  Prior to the commencement of the Feasibility Study, an Interconnection 
Customer may request to reduce by up to 60 percent of the electrical generating facility 
capability or Maximum Facility Output (MW) (in the case of a Generation Interconnection 
Request), through either (1) decrease in plant size or (2) a decrease in interconnection service 
level (consistent with the process described in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.1.1A or the 
capability (in the case of a Transmission Interconnection Request) without losing its current 
Queue Position. For Interconnection Requests received in months one through five of the New 
Services Queue the Interconnection Customer must identify this change prior to the close of 
business on the last day of the sixth month of the New Services Queue.  For Interconnection 
Requests received during the sixth month of the New Services Queue the Interconnection 
Customer must identify this change no later than close of business on the day following the 
completion of the scoping meeting. 
  
 
36.2A.1.2   After the start of the Feasibility Study, but prior to the return of the executed 
System Impact Study Agreement to the Transmission Provider, an Interconnection Customer 
may modify its project to reduce the size of the project as provided in this section 36.2A.1.2, 
subject to the limitation described in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2A.7 below.  The 
Interconnection Customer may reduce its project by up to 15 percent of the electrical generating 
facility capability or Maximum Facility Output (MW) (in the case of a Generation 
Interconnection Request), through either (1) a decrease in plant size or (2) a decrease in 
interconnection service level (consistent with the process described in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, 
section 36.1.1A or capability (in the case of a Transmission Interconnection Request) of the 
proposed project.  For a request to reduce by more than 15 percent, an Interconnection Customer 
must request the Transmission Provider to evaluate if such a change would be a Material 
Modification and the Transmission Provider will allow the Interconnection Customer to reduce 
the size of its project: (i) to any size if the Transmission Provider determines the change is not a 
Material Modification; or (ii) by up to 60 percent of the electrical generating facility capability or 
Maximum Facility Output (MW) (in the case of a Generation Interconnection Request), through 
either (1) a decrease in plant size or (2) a decrease in interconnection service level (consistent 
with the process described in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.1.1A) or capability (in the 
case of a Transmission Interconnection Request) if the Transmission Provider determines the 
change is a Material Modification, however, such a project that falls within this subsection (ii) 
would be removed from its current Queue Position and will be assigned a new Queue Position at 
the beginning of the subsequent queue and a new Interconnection Feasibility Study will be 
performed consistent with the timing of studies for projects submitted in the subsequent queue.  
All projects assigned such new Queue Positions will retain their priority with respect to each 
other in their newly assigned queue and with respect to all later queue projects in subsequent 
queues, but will lose their priority with respect to other projects in the queue to which they were 
previously assigned.  For increases in generating capacity or transmission capability, the 
Interconnection Customer must submit a new Interconnection Request for the additional 
capability and shall be assigned a new Queue Position for the additional capability. 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 36 Interconnection Requests --> OATT 36.2A 
Modification of Interconnection Request 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
36.2A.2   Modification of an Interconnection Request for Technological Changes 
 
 36.2A.2.1 For a request to modify a project to include a technological advancement, 
no later than the return of the executed Facilities Study Agreement (or, if a Facilities Study is not 
required, prior the return of an executed Interconnection Service Agreement) to the Transmission 
Provider, an Interconnection Customer may request to modify its Interconnection Request to 
include a Permissible Technological Advancement without losing its current Queue Position 
provided Interconnection Customer submits the new machine modeling data associated with 
such Permissible Technological Advancements no later than the return of the executed Facilities 
Study Agreement (or, if a Facilities Study is not required, prior to return of an executed 
Interconnection Service Agreement).  The machine modeling data as specified in the PJM 
Manuals associated with the requested technological change must be submitted via the PJM 
website.   
 
 36.2A.2.2 For a request to modify an Interconnection Request to include a 
technological advancement that does not qualify as a Permissible Technological Advancement, 
prior to returning an executed Facilities Study Agreement (or, if a Facilities Study is not 
required, prior to returning an executed Interconnection Service Agreement) to the Transmission 
Provider, an Interconnection Customer may request in writing to modify its Interconnection 
Request to add a technological advancement.  Such requests must also include machine modeling 
data as specified in the PJM Manuals and submitted via the PJM website.  If PJM determines the 
data submitted with such request is incomplete or incorrect, PJM will reject such technological 
change request and the Interconnection Customer may resubmit its technological change request 
with the complete and/or accurate data.  All technological advancement requests not qualifying 
as a Permissible Technological Advancement will require a study and be evaluated by the 
Transmission Provider to determine whether such change would constitute a Material 
Modification.  Such evaluation will include an analysis of the short circuit capability limits, 
steady-state thermal and voltage limits, or dynamic system stability and response on subsequent-
queued Interconnection Requests.  If the Transmission Provider determines that the technological 
advancement is not a Material Modification, the Interconnection Customer may modify its 
Interconnection Request to include such technological advancement.  If the Transmission 
Provider determines the change is a Material Modification, the Interconnection Customer must 
withdraw its technological advancement change request to retain its Queue Position or proceed 
with a new Interconnection Request with such technological change.  PJM shall determine 
whether a technological advancement is a Material Modification within thirty (30) calendar days 
of receipt of the technological advancement request.   
 
36.2A.3   Modifications After the System Impact Study Agreement but Prior to Executing 
an Interconnection Service Agreement  
 
After the System Impact Study Agreement is executed and prior to execution of the 
Interconnection Service Agreement, an Interconnection Customer may modify its project to 
reduce the size of the project as provided in this section 36.2A.3, subject to the limitation 
described in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2A.7 below.  The Interconnection Customer 
may reduce its project by the greater of 10 MW or 5 percent of the electrical generating facility 
capability or Maximum Facility Output (MW) (in the case of a Generation Interconnection 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 36 Interconnection Requests --> OATT 36.2A 
Modification of Interconnection Request 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 4 
Request), through either (1) a decrease in plant size or (2) a decrease in interconnection service 
level (consistent with the process described in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.1.1A) or 
capability (in the case of a Transmission Interconnection Request) of the proposed project.  For a 
request to reduce by more than the greater of 10 MW or 5 percent, an Interconnection Customer 
must request the Transmission Provider to evaluate if such a change would be a Material 
Modification and the Transmission Provider will allow the Interconnection Customer to reduce 
the size of its project: (i) to any size if the Transmission Provider determines the change is not a 
Material Modification; or (ii) by up to the greater of 50 MW or 20 percent of the electrical 
generating facility capability or Maximum Facility Output (MW) (in the case of a Generation 
Interconnection Request), through either (1) a decrease in plant size or (2) a decrease in 
interconnection service level (consistent with the process described in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, 
section 36.1.1A)or capability (in the case of a Transmission Interconnection Request) if the 
Transmission Provider determines the change is a Material Modification, however, such a project 
that falls within this subsection (ii) would be removed from its current Queue Position and will 
be assigned a new Queue Position at the beginning of the subsequent queue and a new System 
Impact Study will be performed consistent with the timing of studies for projects submitted in 
the subsequent queue.  All projects assigned such new Queue Positions will retain their priority 
with respect to each other in their newly assigned queue and with respect to all later queue 
projects in subsequent queues, but will lose their priority with respect to other projects in the 
queue to which they were previously assigned.  
 
36.2A.4  
 
Prior to making any modifications other than those specifically permitted by Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart A, sections 36.2A.1, 36.2A.3 and 36.2A.6, the Interconnection Customer may first 
request that the Transmission Provider evaluate whether such modification is a Material 
Modification.  In response to the Interconnection Customer’s request, the Transmission Provider 
shall evaluate the proposed modifications prior to making them and shall inform the 
Interconnection Customer in writing of whether the modification(s) would constitute a Material 
Modification.  For purposes of this section 36.2A.4, any change to the Point of Interconnection 
(other than a change deemed acceptable under Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, sections 36.1.5, 36.2.1, 
or 36.2A.1) or increase in generating capacity shall constitute a Material Modification.  The 
Interconnection Customer may then withdraw the proposed modification or proceed with a new 
Interconnection Request for such modification. 
 
36.2A.5  
 
Upon receipt of the Interconnection Customer’s request for modification under Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart A, section 36.2A.4, the Transmission Provider shall commence and perform any 
necessary additional studies as soon as practicable, but, except as otherwise provided in this 
Subpart A, the Transmission Provider shall commence such studies no later than thirty (30) 
calendar days after receiving notice of the Interconnection Customer’s request.  Any additional 
studies resulting from such modification shall be done at the Interconnection Customer’s 
expense.  Transmission Provider shall not require a separate deposit for any additional studies 
required as a result of Interconnection Customer’s request for modification under Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart A, section 36.2A.4 above.  Instead, all such study costs shall be invoiced and paid as 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 36 Interconnection Requests --> OATT 36.2A 
Modification of Interconnection Request 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 5 
work to be conducted under the Feasibility Study, System Impact Study, or Facilities Study, as 
applicable. 
 
36.2A.6  
 
Extensions of less than three (3) cumulative years in the projected date of Initial Operation of the 
Customer Facility are not material and shall be handled through construction sequencing.   
 
The proposed Commencement Date can be extended (i) after the scoping meeting, once study 
timing is fully understood, not to exceed seven (7) years; (ii) due to study delays; or (iii) due to 
associated Network Upgrade construction timing. 
 
The following language applies to Interconnection Requests which have entered the New 
Services Queue on or after May 1, 2012.  
 
36.2A.7 
 
An Interconnection Customer may be assigned a new queue position as provided for in Tariff, 
Part IV, Subpart A, sections 36.2A.1.2, or 36.2A.3 a total of two times for any single 
Interconnection Request.  In the event that Interconnection Customer seeks to reduce the size of 
its project such that Transmission Provider determines the change is a material modification, and 
such change would result in the third assignment of a new queue position under Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart A, sections 36.2A.1.2, or 36.2A.3, then the Interconnection Request shall be terminated 
and withdrawn if the Interconnection Customer proceeds with such change. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 36 Interconnection Requests --> OATT 36.3 
Upgrade Feasibility Study 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
36.3 Upgrade Feasibility Study:  
 
After receiving a signed Upgrade Request, pursuant to Attachment EE of the PJM Tariff, seeking 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights and the applicable deposit of $20,000, the Transmission 
Provider shall conduct an Upgrade Feasibility Study to make a preliminary determination of the 
type and scope of any Local Upgrades or Network Upgrades that will be necessary to 
accommodate the Upgrade Request and provide the Upgrade Customer a preliminary estimate of 
the time that will be required to construct any necessary facilities and upgrades and the Upgrade 
Customer’s cost responsibility, estimated consistent with Tariff, Part VI, Subpart B, section 217. 
The Upgrade Feasibility Study assesses the practicality and cost of accommodating the requested 
service. The analysis is limited to load-flow analysis of probable contingencies. The 
Transmission Provider shall provide a copy of the Upgrade Feasibility Study and, to the extent 
consistent with the Office of the Interconnection's confidentiality obligations in Operating 
Agreement, section 18.17, related work papers to the Upgrade Customer and the affected 
Transmission Owner(s). Upon completion, the Transmission Provider shall make the completed 
Upgrade Feasibility Study publicly available. The Transmission Provider shall conduct Upgrade 
Feasibility Studies two times each year in conjunction with the Interconnection Feasibility 
Studies conducted under Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 36 Interconnection Requests --> OATT 36.4 
Surplus Interconnection Study 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
36.4 Surplus Interconnection Study 
 
After receiving a valid Surplus Interconnection Study Agreement seeking Surplus 
Interconnection Service and the requisite deposit set forth in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 
36.1.1B.1.i from the Surplus Interconnection Customer, the Transmission Provider shall conduct 
a Surplus Interconnection Study.   
 
(1) Scope of Surplus Interconnection Study.  A Surplus Interconnection Study shall 
consist of reactive power, short circuit/fault duty, stability analysis and any other 
appropriate analyses.  Steady-state (thermal/voltage) analyses may be performed 
as necessary to ensure that all required reliability conditions are studied under off-
peak conditions.  Off-peak steady state analyses shall be performed to the 
required level necessary to demonstrate reliable operation of the Surplus 
Interconnection Service.  The Transmission Provider shall use Reasonable Efforts 
to complete the Surplus Interconnection Study within one hundred eighty (180) 
days of determination of a valid Surplus Interconnection Service Request pursuant 
to Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.1.1B.  If the Transmission Provider is 
unable to complete the Surplus Interconnection Study within such time period, 
Transmission Provider shall notify the Surplus Interconnection Customer and 
provide an estimated completion date and an explanation of the reasons why the 
additional time is required. 
 
(2) Once the Surplus Interconnection Study is completed and Transmission Provider 
confirms that (i) no new Network Upgrades are required, (ii) there are no impacts 
affecting the determination of what upgrades are necessary for New Service 
Customers in the New Services Queue, and (iii) there are no material impacts on 
short circuit capability limits, steady-state thermal and voltage limits or dynamic 
system stability and response, the Transmission Provider shall issue the Surplus 
Interconnection Study to the Surplus Interconnection Customer.  If the Surplus 
Interconnection Customer is an unaffiliated third party, PJM shall issue a Surplus 
Interconnection Study to the owner of the existing Generating Facility.  A revised 
Interconnection Service Agreement will be prepared and issued to the owner of 
the existing Generating Facility within sixty (60) days of issuance of the Surplus 
Interconnection Study including the terms and conditions for Surplus 
Interconnection Service.  Within sixty (60) days of receipt by the owner of the 
existing Generating Facility of the revised Interconnection Service Agreement, 
the owner of the existing Generating Facility will execute the revised 
Interconnection Service Agreement, request dispute resolution or request that the 
Interconnection Service Agreement be filed unexecuted in accordance with Tariff, 
Part VI, Subpart A, section 212.4.   
 
(3) If the Transmission Provider determines from the Surplus Interconnection Study 
that Network Upgrades may be required or there may be impacts affecting the 
determination of what upgrades are necessary for New Service Customers in the 
New Services Queue, or there may be material impacts on short circuit capability 
limits, steady-state thermal and voltage limits or dynamic system stability and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 36 Interconnection Requests --> OATT 36.4 
Surplus Interconnection Study 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
response, the Surplus Interconnection Request will be terminated and withdrawn 
upon issuance of the Surplus Interconnection Study. 
 
(4) Deactivation of Existing Generating Facility 
 
a. Surplus Interconnection Service cannot be offered if the existing 
Generating Facility from which Surplus Interconnection is provided is 
deactivated or has submitted a Notice to Deactivate to Transmission 
Provider consistent with Tariff, Part V, before the surplus generating unit 
has commenced commercial operation. 
 
b. Limited Operation.  A Generating Facility receiving Surplus 
Interconnection Service may continue to receive Surplus Interconnection 
Service for a period not to exceed one (1) year after the existing 
Generating Facility’s Deactivation Date under the following conditions: 
 
i. The surplus generating unit must have been studied by the 
Transmission Provider for the sole operation at the Point of 
Interconnection; and 
 
ii. The owner of the existing Generating Facility must agree in 
writing that the Surplus Interconnection Customer may continue to 
operate at either its limited share of the existing Generating 
Facility’s capability under its Interconnection Service Agreement 
or any level below such capability upon the deactivation of the 
existing Generating Facility. 
 
c. If the Surplus Interconnection Customer cannot satisfy the conditions of 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.4.4(b) above, the revised 
Interconnection Service Agreement for the existing Generating Facility 
shall terminate consistent with the Interconnection Service Agreement 
terms of termination for a deactivated Generating Facility.  
   
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 37 Additional Procedures: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
37 Additional Procedures:  
 
Upon completion of the Interconnection Feasibility Study, the Transmission Provider shall 
tender affected Interconnection Customers a System Impact Study Agreement pursuant to Tariff, 
Part VI.  The procedures and other terms of Tariff, Part VI shall apply to the System Impact 
Study and subsequent analysis of Interconnection Requests.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 38 Service on Merchant Transmission Facilities: 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
38 Service on Merchant Transmission Facilities:  
 
(a) A Transmission Interconnection Customer that will be a Merchant Transmission Provider 
shall: 
 
(1) at least 90 days prior to the anticipated date of commencement of Interconnection Service 
under its Interconnection Service Agreement, provide the Transmission Provider with terms and 
conditions for reservation, interruption and curtailment priorities for firm and non-firm 
transmission service on the Merchant Transmission Provider’s Merchant Transmission Facilities. 
Such terms and conditions shall be non-discriminatory and shall be consistent with the terms of 
the Commission’s approval of the Merchant Transmission Provider’s right to charge negotiated 
(market-based) rates for service on its Merchant Transmission Facilities. Transmission Provider 
shall post such terms and conditions applicable to service on the Merchant Transmission 
Facilities on its OASIS and shall file them with the Commission as a separate service schedule 
under the Tariff, with a proposed effective date on or before the anticipated date of 
commencement of Interconnection Service for the affected Transmission Interconnection 
Customer; and (2) at least 15 days prior to the anticipated date of commencement of 
Interconnection Service for Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities, provide the Transmission Provider with the results of a 
Commission-approved process for allocation of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights associated with such Merchant Transmission Provider’s Merchant D.C. 
Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities, and with a 
listing of any Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights not 
allocated in such process. Transmission Provider shall post such information on its OASIS. 
 
(b) Should the Merchant Transmission Provider fail to provide the Transmission Provider with 
the terms and conditions for service on the Merchant Transmission Provider’s Merchant 
Transmission Facilities required under subsection (a)(1) of this section, firm and non-firm 
transmission service on such Merchant Transmission Facilities shall be subject to the terms and 
conditions regarding reservation, interruption and curtailment priorities applicable to Firm or 
Non-Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service on the Transmission System. 
 
(c) Except as otherwise provided under this section 38, transmission service on, and operation of, 
Merchant Transmission Facilities shall be subject to the terms and conditions (including in 
particular, but not limited to, those relating to Transmission Provider’s authority in the event of 
an emergency) applicable to Transmission Service under the Tariff and the Operating 
Agreement.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 39 Local Furnishing Bonds 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
39 Local Furnishing Bonds 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 39 Local Furnishing Bonds --> OATT 39.1 
Transmission Owners That Own Facilities 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
39.1 Transmission Owners That Own Facilities Financed by Local Furnishing Bonds: 
 
This provision is applicable only to an Interconnected Transmission Owner that has financed 
facilities for the local furnishing of electric energy with tax-exempt bonds, as described in 
Section 142(f) of the Internal Revenue Code (“local furnishing bonds”).  Notwithstanding any 
other provision of Tariff, Part IV or Tariff, Part VI, Transmission Provider shall not be required 
to provide Interconnection Service to Interconnection Customer pursuant to Tariff, Part IV or 
Tariff, Part VI if the provision of such Interconnection Service would jeopardize the tax-exempt 
status of any local furnishing bond(s) used to finance the Interconnected Transmission Owner’s 
facilities that would be used in providing such Interconnection Service. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 39 Local Furnishing Bonds --> OATT 39.2 
Alternative Procedures for Requesting Interconnect 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
39.2 Alternative Procedures for Requesting Interconnection Service: 
 
An Interconnected Transmission Owner that believes the provision of Interconnection Service 
would jeopardize the tax-exempt status of any local furnishing bond(s) used to finance the 
Interconnected Transmission Owner’s facilities that would be used in providing such 
Interconnection Service, it shall so notify Transmission Provider within 30 days after the 
Transmission Owner receives a copy of the Interconnection Customer’s Interconnection Request. 
If Transmission Provider determines that the provision of Interconnection Service requested by 
Interconnection Customer would jeopardize the tax-exempt status of the Interconnected 
Transmission Owner’s local furnishing bonds, it shall so advise the Interconnection Customer 
within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice of such jeopardy from the affected Interconnected 
Transmission Owner. Interconnection Customer thereafter may renew its request for 
interconnection using the process specified in Tariff, Part I, section 5.2(ii). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 40 Non-Binding Dispute Resolution Procedures 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
40 Non-Binding Dispute Resolution Procedures: 
 
If a party has submitted a notice of dispute pursuant to Tariff, Part I, section 12.1 and the parties 
are unable to resolve the dispute through unassisted or assisted negotiation within the thirty (30) 
days (or such other period as the parties to the dispute may agree upon) provided in that section, 
and the parties cannot reach mutual agreement to pursue Tariff, Part I, section 12.2 arbitration 
process, a party may request that Transmission Provider engage in non-binding dispute 
resolution pursuant to this section 40 by providing written notice to Transmission Provider.  
Conversely, either party may file a request for non-binding dispute resolution pursuant to this 
section without first seeking mutual agreement to pursue Tariff, Part I, section 12.2 arbitration 
process.  The process in this section shall serve as an alternative to, and not a replacement of, the 
Tariff, Part I, section 12.2 arbitration process.  Pursuant to this process, a Transmission Provider 
must within thirty (30) days of receipt of the request for this non-binding dispute resolution 
appoint a neutral decision-maker that is an independent subcontractor that shall not have any 
current or past substantial business or financial relationships with either party.  Unless otherwise 
agreed to by the parties, the decision-maker shall render a decision within sixty (60) days of 
appointment and shall notify the parties in writing of such decision and reasons therefore.  This 
decision-maker shall be authorized only to interpret and apply the provisions of the Tariff and 
relevant service agreement and shall have no power to modify or change any provision of the 
Tariff or relevant service agreement in any manner.  The result reached in this process is not 
binding, but, unless otherwise agreed, the parties may cite the record and decision in the non-
binding dispute resolution process in future dispute resolution processes, including in a Tariff, 
Part I, section 12.2 arbitration, or in a Federal Power Act, section 206 complaint.  Each party 
shall be responsible for its own costs incurred during the process and the cost of the decision-
maker shall be divided equally among each party to the dispute. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 41 Interconnection Study Statistics 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
41 Interconnection Study Statistics 
Transmission Provider will maintain on its website summary statistics related to processing 
Interconnection Studies pursuant to Interconnection Requests, which will be updated every six 
months.  For purposes of this section, an Interconnection Study is deemed complete on the date 
upon which the study itself is completed and a study report is provided to the Interconnection 
Customer and Interconnected Transmission Owner(s).  For each six-month reporting period, 
Transmission Provider will calculate and post the information detailed in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart 
A, sections 41.1 through 41.4. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 41 Interconnection Study Statistics --> OATT 41.1 
Interconnection Feasibility Studies Processing  
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
41.1 Interconnection Feasibility Studies Processing Time: 
(a) Number of Interconnection Requests that had Interconnection Feasibility Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting 
period. 
 
(b) Number of Interconnection Requests that had Interconnection Feasibility Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting 
period that were completed after the Interconnection Feasibility Study deadline specified in 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2. 
 
(c) At the end of the six month reporting period, the number of active valid Interconnection 
Requests with ongoing incomplete Interconnection Feasibility Studies where such 
Interconnection Requests had exceeded the Interconnection Feasibility Study deadline in Tariff, 
Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2 before the end of the six month reporting period. 
 
(d) Mean time (in days), Interconnection Feasibility Studies completed within Transmission 
Provider’s coordinated region during the six month reporting period, from the date when 
Transmission Provider initiated performance of the Interconnection Feasibility Studies to date 
when Transmission Provider provided the completed Interconnection Feasibility Study to the 
Interconnection Customer. 
 
(e) Percentage of Interconnection Feasibility Studies exceeding the Interconnection 
Feasibility Study deadline in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2 to complete this six-month 
reporting period, calculated as the sum of Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.1(b) plus Tariff, 
Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.1(c) divided by the sum of Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 
41.1(a) plus Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.1(c). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 41 Interconnection Study Statistics --> OATT 41.2 
Interconnection System Impact Studies Processing 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
41.2 Interconnection System Impact Studies Processing Time: 
 
(a) Number of Interconnection Requests that had Interconnection System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting 
period. 
 
(b) Number of Interconnection Requests that had Interconnection System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting 
period that were completed after the deadline specified in the System Impact Study Agreement. 
 
(c) At the end of the six-month reporting period, the number of active valid Interconnection 
Requests with ongoing incomplete System Impact Studies where such Interconnection Requests 
had exceeded the deadline specified in the System Impact Study Agreement before the end of the 
six-month reporting period. 
 
(d) Mean time (in days), Interconnection System Impact Studies completed within 
Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting period, from the date 
when Transmission Provider initiated the performance of the System Impact Studies to the date 
when Transmission Provider provided the completed Interconnection System Impact Study to 
the Interconnection Customer. 
 
(e) Percentage of Interconnection System Impact Studies exceeding deadline specified in the 
System Impact Study Agreement to complete this six-month reporting period, calculated as the 
sum of Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.2(b) plus Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.2(c) 
divided by the sum of Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.2(a) plus Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, 
section 41.2(c). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 41 Interconnection Study Statistics --> OATT 41.3 
Interconnection Facilities Studies Processing Time 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
41.3 Interconnection Facilities Studies Processing Time: 
 
(a) Number of Interconnection Requests that had Interconnection Facilities Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting 
period. 
 
(b) Number of Interconnection Requests that had Interconnection Facilities Studies that are 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting 
period that were completed after the deadline specified in the Facilities Study Agreement. 
 
(c) At the end of the six-month reporting period, the number of active valid Interconnection 
Service requests with ongoing incomplete Interconnection Facilities Studies where such 
Interconnection Requests had exceeded the deadline specified in the Facilities Study Agreement 
before the end of the six-month reporting period. 
 
(d) Mean time (in days), Interconnection Facilities Studies completed within Transmission 
Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting period, calculated from the date 
when Transmission Provider received the executed Interconnection Facilities Studies Agreement 
to the date when Transmission Provider provided the completed Interconnection Facilities Study 
to the Interconnection Customer. 
 
(e) Percentage of delayed Interconnection Facilities Studies this six-month reporting period, 
calculated as the sum of Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.3(b) plus Tariff, Part IV, Subpart 
A, section 41.3(c) divided by the sum of Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.3(a) plus Tariff, 
Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.3(c). 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 41 Interconnection Study Statistics --> OATT 41.4 
Interconnection Service Requests Withdrawn 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
41.4 Interconnection Service Requests Withdrawn from Interconnection Queue: 
 
(a) Number of valid Interconnection Requests that withdrew from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six-month reporting period [this eliminates all new 
Interconnection Requests that were found to be invalid] [this total number]. 
 
(b) Number of valid Interconnection Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six-month reporting period before completion of any 
interconnection studies or execution of any interconnection study agreements. 
 
(c) Number of Interconnection Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six-month reporting period before completion of an 
Interconnection System Impact Study. 
 
(d) Number of Interconnection Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six-month reporting period before completion of an 
Interconnection Facility Study. 
 
(e) Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six-month reporting period after execution of an 
Interconnection Service Agreement, Upgrade Construction Service Agreement or Wholesale 
Market Participation Agreement or Interconnection Customer requests the filing of an 
unexecuted, new Interconnection Service Agreement. 
 
(f) Mean time (in days), for all withdrawn Interconnection Requests, from the date when the 
Interconnection Request was determined to be valid to when Transmission Provider received the 
request to withdraw from the queue. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 41 Interconnection Study Statistics --> OATT 41.5 
Posting Requirements 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
41.5 Posting Requirements 
Transmission Provider is required to post on its website the measures in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart 
A, sections 41.1 through 41.4 for each six-month reporting period within thirty (30) days of the 
end of the reporting period.  Transmission Provider will keep the measures posted on its website 
for three (3) calendar years with the first required reporting year to be 2020. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 41 Interconnection Study Statistics --> OATT 41.6 
Additional Compliance Obligations 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
41.6 Additional Compliance Requirements 
In the event that any of the values calculated in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.1(e), Tariff, 
Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.2(e) or Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.3(e) exceeds 25 
percent for two consecutive reporting periods, Transmission Provider will have to comply with 
the measures below for the next two (2) six-month reporting periods and must continue reporting 
this information until Transmission Provider reports two (2) consecutive six-month reporting 
periods without the values calculated in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.1(e), Tariff, Part 
IV, Subpart A, section 41.2(e) or Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 41.3(e) exceeding 25 percent 
for two (2) consecutive six-month reporting periods:  
 
(a) Transmission Provider must submit a report to the Commission describing the reason for 
each study or group of clustered studies pursuant to an Interconnection Request that 
exceeded its deadline (i.e., 45, 90 or 180 days) for completion (excluding any allowance 
for Reasonable Efforts).  Transmission Provider must describe the reasons for each study 
delay and any steps taken to remedy these specific issues and, if applicable, prevent such 
delays in the future.  The report must be filed at the Commission within 45 days of the 
end of the reporting period. 
 
(b) Transmission Provider shall aggregate the total number of employee hours and third party 
consultant hours expended towards interconnection studies within its coordinated region 
that reporting period and post on its website. This information is to be posted within 
thirty (30) days of the end of the reporting period. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart A – INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURES --> OATT 42-108 [Reserved] 
Effective Date: 4/1/2020 - Docket #: ER19-1958-000 - Page 1 
42 – 108  [Reserved.] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart B – [Reserved.] 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
Subpart B – [Reserved.] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart C – [Reserved.] 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
Subpart C – [Reserved.] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart D – [Reserved.] 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
Subpart D – [Reserved.] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart E – [Reserved.] 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
Subpart E – [Reserved.] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart F – [Reserved.] 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
Subpart F – [Reserved.] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE 
 
References to section numbers in this Subpart G refer to sections of this Subpart G, unless 
otherwise specified. 
 
Preamble 
 
 Requests for the interconnection of new Small Generation Resources or increases of 20 
MW or less to the capability of existing generation resources may be processed, pursuant to the 
applicable provisions of Section 36 of the PJM Tariff, and through the expedited procedures set 
forth in this Subpart G.  This Subpart G describes procedures for the following categories of 
“small resource” additions:  permanent Capacity Resource additions of 20 MW or less, 
permanent Energy Resource additions of 20 MW or less but greater than 2 MW(synchronous) or 
greater than 5 MW (inverter-based), temporary Energy Resource additions of 20 MW or less but 
greater than 2 MW (synchronous) or 5 MW (inverter-based), permanent and temporary Energy 
Resource additions of 2 MW or less (synchronous) or 5 MW or less (inverter-based), and 
certified small inverter-based facility additions no larger than 10 kW.  Tariff, Part VI contains 
the procedures, terms and conditions that govern, in general, the Transmission Provider’s 
administration of the New Services Queue, System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies of 
Interconnection Requests, and agreements related to such studies and Interconnection Service, 
except as otherwise provided in this Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G. 
 
 Interconnection Requests submitted pursuant to this Subpart G shall be evaluated using 
the maximum capacity that the Small Generation Resource is capable of injecting into the 
Transmission Provider’s electric system.  However, if the maximum capacity that the Small 
Generation Resource is capable of injecting into the Transmission Provider’s electric system is 
limited (e.g., through use of a control system, power relay(s), or other similar device settings or 
adjustments), then the Interconnection Customer must obtain the Transmission Provider’s 
agreement, with such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld, that the manner in which the 
Interconnection Customer proposes to implement such a limit will not adversely affect the safety 
and reliability of the Transmission Provider’s system.  If the Transmission Provider does not so 
agree, then the Interconnection Request must be withdrawn or revised to specify the maximum 
capacity that the Small Generation Resource is capable of injecting into the Transmission 
Provider’s electricy system without such limitations.  Furthermore, nothing in the foregoing shall 
prevent a Transmission Provider from considering an output higher than the limited output, if 
appropriate, when evaluating system protection impacts. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 109 Pre-Application 
Process 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
109 Pre-application Process 
 
109.1 Eligibility   
A pre-application report request submitted pursuant to this section will only be furnished to 
prospective Interconnection Customers seeking to interconnect Small Generation Resources or 
increases of 20 MW or less to the capability of existing generation resources which, when 
combined, does not exceed 20 MW in aggregated maximum facility output  
 
109.2 Informal Request 
The Transmission Provider shall designate an employee or office from which information on the 
pre-application process and on the Transmission Provider’s system can be obtained through 
informal requests from a prospective Interconnection Customer presenting a proposed project for 
a specific site.  The name, telephone number and e-mail address of such contact employee or 
office shall be made available on the Transmission Provider’s Internet web site.  Electric system 
information provided to the prospective Interconnection Customer should include relevant 
system studies, interconnection studies, and other materials useful to provide an understanding of 
an interconnection at a particular point on the Transmission Provider’s system, to the extent such 
provision does not violate confidentiality provisions of prior agreements or critical infrastructure 
requirements.  The Transmission Provider shall comply with reasonable requests for such 
information. 
 
109.3  Pre-application Request   
In addition to the information described in section 109.2 above, which may be provided in 
response to an informal request, a prospective Interconnection Customer may submit a formal 
written request form, which form shall be made available on the Transmission Provider’s 
Internet web site, requesting a pre-application report on a proposed project at a specific site.  The 
written pre-application report request from shall include the information in sections 109.3.1 
through 109.3.8 below to clearly and sufficiently identify the location of the proposed Point of 
Interconnection. 
 
 109.3.1  Project contact information, including name, address, phone number and email 
 address. 
 
 109.3.2  Project location (street address with nearby cross streets and town). 
 
 109.3.3  Meter number, pole number, or other equivalent information identifying   
 proposed Point of Interconnection, if available. 
 
 109.3.4  Generator type (e.g., solar, wind, combined heat and power, etc.). 
 
 109.3.5  Size (alternating current kW). 
 
 109.3.6  Single or three phase generator configuration. 
 
 109.3.7  Stand-alone generator (no onsite load, not including station service –   
 Yes or No?). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 109 Pre-Application 
Process 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
 
 109.3.8  Is new service requested?  Yes or No?  If there is existing service, include the 
customer account number, site minimum and maximum current or  proposed electric 
loads in kW (if available) and specify if the load is expected to change. 
 
109.4  Jurisdictional Review 
Within five (5) Business Days following the receipt of a completed formal written request, 
submitted along with a $300 deposit paid by the prospective Interconnection Customer, the 
Transmission Provider will evaluate whether the proposed project contemplates FERC-
jurisdictional service and/or will be interconnected with FERC-jurisdictional facilities.  If it is 
determined that the proposed project does not contemplate FERC-jurisdictional service and/or 
will not be interconnecting with FERC-jurisdictional facilities, the Transmission Provider will so 
inform the prospective Interconnection Customer and refund the $300 deposit.   
 
109.5 Pre-application Report 
After the Transmission Provider has determined that a proposed project contemplates FERC-
jurisdictional service and/or will be interconnected with FERC-jurisdictional facilities, the 
prospective Interconnection Customer’s $300 deposit paid in conjunction with the jurisdictional 
review noted above, will be utilized to satisfy a $300 non-refundable fee required for the 
Transmission Provider to process a pre-application report.  The Transmission Provider shall 
provide the pre-application data described in section 109.6 below to the Interconnection 
Customer within 20 Business Days after the completion of the jurisdictional review set forth 
above.  The pre-application report produced by the Transmission Provider is non-binding, does 
not confer any rights, and the Interconnection Customer must still successfully apply to 
interconnect to the Transmission Provider’s system.   
 
109.6  Pre-application Report Data 
Using the information provided in the pre-application report request form in section 109.3 above, 
the Transmission Provider will identify the substation/area bus, bank or circuit likely to serve the 
proposed Point of Interconnection.  This selection by the Transmission Provider does not 
necessarily indicate after application of the screens and/or study that this would be the circuit the 
project ultimately connects to.  The Interconnection Customer must request additional pre-
application reports if information about multiple Points of Interconnection is requested.  Subject 
to section 109.7 below, the pre-application report will include the following information: 
 
109.6.1  Total capacity (in MW) of substation/area bus, bank or circuit based on normal 
or operating ratings likely to serve the proposed Point of Interconnection. 
 
109.6.2  Existing aggregate generation capacity (in MW) interconnected to a 
substation/area bus, bank or circuit (i.e., amount of generation online) likely to serve the 
proposed Point of Interconnection.   
 
109.6.3 Aggregate queued generation capacity (in MW) for a substation/area bus, bank or 
circuit (i.e., amount of generation in the queue) likely to serve the proposed Point of 
Interconnection. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 109 Pre-Application 
Process 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
109.6.4 Available capacity (in MW) of substation/area bus or bank and circuit likely to 
serve the proposed Point of Interconnection (i.e., total capacity less the sum of existing 
aggregate generation capacity and aggregate queued generation capacity). 
 
109.6.5 Substation nominal distribution voltage and/or transmission nominal voltage if 
applicable. 
 
109.6.6 Nominal distribution circuit voltage at the proposed Point of Interconnection. 
 
109.6.7 Approximate circuit distance between the proposed Point of Interconnection and 
the substation. 
 
109.6.8 Relevant line section(s) actual or estimated peak load and minimum load data, 
including daytime minimum load as described in section 112A.5.3.1 below and absolute 
minimum load, when available. 
 
109.6.9 Number and rating of protective devices and number and type (standard, bi-
directional) of voltage regulating devices between the proposed Point of Interconnection 
and the substation/area. Identify whether the substation has a load tap changer. 
 
109.6.10 Number of phases available at the proposed Point of Interconnection. If a single 
phase, distance from the three-phase circuit. 
 
109.6.11 Limiting conductor ratings from the proposed Point of Interconnection to the 
distribution substation. 
 
109.6.12 Whether the Point of Interconnection is located on a spot network, grid network, 
or radial supply. 
 
109.6.13 Based on the proposed Point of Interconnection, existing or known constraints 
such as, but not limited to, electrical dependencies at that location, short circuit 
interrupting capacity issues, power quality or stability issues on the circuit, capacity 
constraints, or secondary networks. 
 
109.7  Pre-application Report Limitations 
The pre-application report need only include existing data.  A pre-application report request does 
not obligate the Transmission Provider to conduct a study or other analysis of the proposed 
generator in the event that data is not readily available.  If the Transmission Provider cannot 
complete all or some of a pre-application report due to lack of available data, the Transmission 
Provider shall provide the Interconnection Customer with a pre-application report that includes 
that data that is available.  The provision of information on “available capacity” pursuant to 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart G, section 109.6.4 does not imply that an interconnection up to this level 
may be completed without impacts since there are many variables studied as part of the 
interconnection review process, and data provided in the pre-application report may become 
outdated at the time of the submission of the complete Interconnection Request.  
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this section, the Transmission Provider shall, in good 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 109 Pre-Application 
Process 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 4 
faith, include data in the pre-application report that represents the best available information at 
the time of reporting. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 110 Permanent Capacity 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or L 
Effective Date: 11/1/2014 - Docket #: ER14-2590-001 - Page 1 
110 Permanent Capacity Resource Additions of 20 MW or Less 
 
 This section describes procedures related to the submission and processing of Generation 
Interconnection Requests related to (a) Small Generation Resources, or (b) the increase in 
capability, by 20 MW or less over any period of 24 consecutive months, of an existing 
generation resource, for which Capacity Interconnection Rights are to be granted. Such resources 
may participate in the PJM energy and capacity markets and may, therefore, be used by load 
serving entities to meet capacity obligations imposed under the PJM Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. These procedures apply to generation resources which, when connected to the 
system, are expected to remain connected to the system for the normal life span of such a 
generation resource. These procedures do not apply to resources that are specifically being 
connected to the system temporarily, with the expectation that they will later be removed. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 110 Permanent Capacity 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or L --> OATT 110.1 Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 1 
110.1 Application 
 
A Generation Interconnection Customer desiring the interconnection of a new Generation 
Capacity Resource of 20 MW or less or the increase in capacity by 20 MW or less of an Existing 
Generation Capacity Resource, must submit to the Transmission Provider a Generation 
Interconnection Request.  The Transmission Provider shall acknowledge receipt of the 
Generation Interconnection Request (electronically when available to all parties, otherwise 
written) within five Business Days after receipt of the Generation Interconnection Request. 
 
1. Generation Interconnection Request Requirements. 
a. To be assigned a PJM Queue Position pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, 
Preamble, section 201, a Generation Interconnection Customer must 
submit a complete and fully executed Generation Interconnection 
Feasibility Study Agreement, a form of which is located in the Tariff, 
Attachment N.  To be considered complete at the time of submission, the 
Interconnection Customer’s Generation Interconnection Feasibility Study 
Agreement must include, at a minimum, each of the following: 
i.  specification of the location of the proposed generating unit site or 
existing generating unit (include both a written description (e.g., 
street address, global positioning coordinates) and attach a map in 
PDF format depicting the property boundaries and the location of 
the generating unit site); and 
ii.  evidence of an ownership interest in, or right to acquire or control 
the generating unit site for a minimum of two years, such as a 
deed, option agreement, lease, or other similar document 
acceptable to the Transmission Provider; and 
iii.  the MW size of the proposed generating unit or the amount of 
increase in MW capability of an existing generating unit, and 
identification of any MW portion of the facility’s capability that 
will be a Capacity Resource; and 
iv. identification of the fuel type of the proposed generating unit or 
upgrade thereto; and 
v.  a description of the equipment configuration, and a set of 
preliminary electrical design specifications, and, if the generating 
unit is a wind generation facility, then the set of preliminary 
electrical design specifications must depict the wind plant as a 
single equivalent generator; and 
vi.  the planned date the proposed generating unit or increase in MW 
capability of an existing generating unit will be in service, where 
such date is to be no more than seven years from the date that a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 110 Permanent Capacity 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or L --> OATT 110.1 Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 2 
complete and fully executed Generation Interconnection Feasibility 
Study Agreement is received by the Transmission Provider unless 
the Interconnection Customer demonstrates that engineering, 
permitting, and construction of the generating unit or increase in 
capability will take more than seven years; and  
vii.  any additional information as may be prescribed by the 
Transmission Provider in the PJM Manuals; and 
viii. If Behind the Meter Generation is identified in the Generation 
Interconnection Feasibility Study Agreement, all of the 
requirements in Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.1A must also 
be met; and 
ix.  Deposit. 
(1) A deposit shall be submitted to Transmission Provider, as 
follows: 
(a) A deposit of $10,000 if the Generation 
Interconnection Request is received in the first four 
calendar months of the current New Services 
Queue; or 
(b) A deposit of $12,000 if the Generation 
Interconnection Request is received in the fifth 
calendar month of the current New Services Queue; 
or  
(c) A deposit of $15,000 if the Generation 
Interconnection Request is received in the sixth 
calendar month of the current New Services Queue. 
(2) 10% of each total deposit amount is non-refundable.  Any 
unused non-refundable deposit monies shall be returned to 
the Generation Interconnection Customer upon Initial 
Operation.  However, if, before reaching Initial Operation, 
the Generation Interconnection Customer withdraws its 
Generation Interconnection Request, or the Generation 
Interconnection Request is otherwise deemed rejected or 
terminated and withdrawn, any unused portion of the non-
refundable deposit monies shall be used to fund: 
(a) Any outstanding monies owed by the 
Interconnection Customer in connection with 
outstanding invoices due to Transmission Provider, 
Interconnected Transmission Owner(s) and/or third 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 110 Permanent Capacity 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or L --> OATT 110.1 Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 3 
party contractors, as applicable, as a result of any 
failure of the Interconnection Customer to pay 
actual costs for the Generation Interconnection 
Request and/or associated Queue Position; and/or 
(b) Any restudies required as a result of the rejection, 
termination and/or withdrawal of such Generation 
Interconnection Request; and/or 
(c) Any outstanding monies owed by the 
Interconnection Customer in connection with 
outstanding invoices related to prior New Service 
Requests and/or Generation Interconnection 
Requests by the Interconnection Customer. 
(3) 90% of each total deposit amount is refundable, and the 
Transmission Provider shall utilize, in no particular order, 
the refundable portion of each total deposit amount to cover 
the following: 
(a) The cost of the Queue Position acceptance review; 
and 
(b) The cost of the deficiency review of the 
Interconnection Customer’s Generation 
Interconnection Request (to determine whether the 
Generation Interconnection Request is valid); and  
(c) The dollar amount of the Interconnection 
Customer’s cost responsibility for the Generation 
Interconnection Feasibility Study; and 
(d) If the Generation Interconnection Request is 
deemed to be modified (pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, 
Subpart A, section 36.2A), rejected, terminated 
and/or withdrawn during the deficiency review 
and/or deficiency response period, as described 
further below, or during the Feasibility Study 
period, the refundable deposit money shall be 
applied to cover all of the costs incurred by the 
Transmission Provider up to the point of such 
Generation Interconnection Request being 
modified, rejected, terminated and/or withdrawn, 
and any remaining refundable deposit monies shall 
be applied to cover: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 110 Permanent Capacity 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or L --> OATT 110.1 Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 4 
(i) The costs of any restudies required as a 
result of the modification (pursuant to 
Tariff, Part IV, Subpart A, section 36.2A), 
rejection, termination and/or withdrawal of 
such Generation Interconnection Request; 
and/or 
(ii) Any outstanding monies owed by the 
Interconnection Customer in connection 
with outstanding invoices due to 
Transmission Provider, Interconnected 
Transmission Owner(s) and/or third party 
contractors, as applicable, as a result of any 
failure of the Interconnection Customer to 
pay actual costs for the Generation 
Interconnection Request and/or associated 
Queue Position; and/or 
(iii) Any outstanding monies owed by the 
Interconnection Customer in connection 
with outstanding invoices related to prior 
New Service Requests and/or Generation 
Interconnection Requests by the 
Interconnection Customer. 
(iv) If any refundable deposit monies remain 
after all costs and outstanding monies owed, 
as described in this section, are covered, 
such remaining refundable deposit monies 
shall be returned to the Generation 
Interconnection Customer in accordance 
with the PJM Manuals.  
(4) Upon completion of the Feasibility Study, the Transmission 
Provider shall apply any remaining refundable deposit 
monies toward: 
(a) The Interconnection Customer’s cost responsibility 
for any other studies conducted for the Generation 
Interconnection Request under Tariff, Part VI, 
which shall be applied prior to the deposit monies 
collected for such other studies; and/or 
(b) Any outstanding monies owed by the 
Interconnection Customer in connection with 
outstanding invoices related to prior New Service 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 110 Permanent Capacity 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or L --> OATT 110.1 Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 5 
Requests and/or Generation Interconnection 
Requests by the Interconnection Customer. 
(5) If any refundable deposit monies remain after the 
Feasibility Study is complete and any outstanding monies 
owed by the Interconnection Customer in connection with 
outstanding invoices related to prior New Service Requests 
and/or Generation Interconnection Requests by the 
Interconnection Customer have been paid, such remaining 
deposit monies shall be returned to the Generation 
Interconnection Customer. 
(6) The Interconnection Customer must submit the total 
required deposit amount with the Generation 
Interconnection Request.  If the Interconnection Customer 
fails to submit the total required deposit amount with the 
Generation Interconnection Request, the Generation 
Interconnection Request shall be deemed to be terminated 
and withdrawn (i.e., the Generation Interconnection 
Request shall be terminated prior to reaching the deficiency 
review stage). 
(7) Deposit monies are non-transferrable.  Under no 
circumstances may refundable or non-refundable deposit 
monies for a specific Interconnection Request or Queue 
Position be applied in whole or in part to a different New 
Service Request, Interconnection Request or Queue 
Position. 
x. Primary frequency response operating range for Energy Storage 
Resources. 
2. Deficiency Review.  Transmission Provider shall provide a deficiency review of 
the Generation Interconnection Request to determine whether the Interconnection 
Customer submitted a valid Generation Interconnection Request.  
a. With the exception of evidence of an ownership interest in, or right to 
acquire or control the generating unit site for a minimum of two years, if a 
Generation Interconnection Request meets all requirements set forth above 
the Transmission Provider shall start the deficiency review.  
Interconnection Customers that fail to provide site control evidence while 
their requests are available for deficiency review shall not be assigned a 
Queue Position until the Transmission Provider receives site control 
evidence that is acceptable to the Transmission Provider. 
b. Pursuant to Tariff, Attachment N, section 9, Cost Responsibility, of the 
Generation Interconnection Feasibility Study Agreement, if the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT IV. INTERCONNECTIONS WITH THE TRANSMISSION 
SYSTEM --> OATT Subpart G – SMALL GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT 110 Permanent Capacity 
Resource Additions of 20 MW or L --> OATT 110.1 Application 
Effective Date: 8/23/2021 - Docket #: ER21-2203-000 - Page 6 
Transmission Provider anticipates that the actual study costs will exceed 
the refundable portion of the required deposit, the Transmission Provider 
shall provide the Interconnection Customer with an estimate of the 
additional study costs.  The estimated additional study costs are non-
binding, and additional actual study costs may exceed the estimated 
additional study cost increases provided by the Transmission Provider.  
Regardless of whether the Transmission Provider provides the 
Interconnection Customer with estimated additional study costs, the 