[SCHEDULE 5 - Part 8 of 10]

why additional time is required to complete the Upgrade Request 
process. 
 
2. Required Study Deposits and Readiness Deposits. 
 
a. Upgrade Customers must submit, by wire transfer, a $150,000 Study 
Deposit together with a completed and fully executed Upgrade Request.  
Ten percent of the Study Deposit is non-refundable.  Upgrade Customers 
are responsible for actual study costs, which may exceed the Study 
Deposit amount. 
i. If a Study Deposit monies remain after the System Impact Study is 
completed and any outstanding monies owed by Upgrade 
Customer in connection with outstanding invoices related to the 
present or prior Upgrade Requests or other New Service Requests 
have been paid, such remaining deposit monies shall be either: 
(a) If Upgrade Customer decides to remain in the Upgrade 
Request process, applied to the Facilities Study; or  
(b) If Upgrade Customer decides to withdraw its Upgrade 
Request from the Upgrade Request process, such remaining 
monies shall be returned, less actual study costs incurred, to 
the Upgrade Customer at the conclusion of the required 
studies for the Upgrade Request. 
ii. The Study Deposit is non-binding, and actual study costs may 
exceed the Study Deposit. 
 
(a) Upgrade Customer is responsible for, and must pay, all 
actual study costs. 
 
(b) If Transmission Provider sends Upgrade Customer 
notification of additional study costs, then Upgrade 
Customer must either: (i) pay all additional study costs 
within 20 days of Transmission Provider sending the 
notification of such additional study costs or (ii) withdraw 
its Upgrade Request.  If Upgrade Customer fails to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT Part VIII.H 435 Upgrade Requests 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 3 
complete either (i) or (ii), then Transmission Provider shall 
deem the Upgrade Request to be terminated and withdrawn. 
b. If, after receiving the System Impact Study report, Upgrade Customer 
decides to remain in the Upgrade Request process, then Upgrade 
Customer must submit by wire transfer a Readiness Deposit within 30 
days from the date that Transmission Provider provides the System Impact 
Study Report. The Readiness Deposit shall equal 20 percent of the cost of 
the Network Upgrades identified in the Upgrade Customer’s System 
Impact Study. If the 30 th day does not fall on a Business Day, then the 
Readiness Deposit shall be due on the next Business Day thereafter.   
i. Readiness Deposit refunds will be handled as follows: 
(a) If the Upgrade Request is withdrawn or terminated after the 
Readiness Deposit has been provided, the Readiness 
Deposit refund amount will be determined by point at 
which the Upgrade Request was withdrawn or terminated, 
and the need for any additional subsequent restudies as a 
result of the withdraw or termination. 
(b) If the project proceeds to a final Upgrade Construction 
Service Agreement (a form of which is located in Tariff, 
Part IX, Subpart E), the Readiness Deposit will be refunded 
upon Upgrade Customer fully executing such agreement. 
c. Study Deposits and Readiness Deposits are non-transferrable.  Under no 
circumstances may refundable or non-refundable Study Deposit or 
Readiness Deposit monies for a specific Upgrade Request be applied in 
whole or in part to a different Upgrade Request, a New Service Request, 
or any other type of request. 
3. Upgrade Request scope cannot include upgrades that are already included in the 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan (with the exception of advancements) or 
subject to an existing, fully executed interconnection related agreement, such as a 
Generation Interconnection Agreement, stand-alone Construction Service 
Agreement, Network Upgrade Cost Responsibility Agreement or Upgrade 
Construction Service Agreement.  
 
4. No Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall be received by an Upgrade 
Customer with respect to transmission investment that is included in the rate base 
of a public utility and on which a regulated return is earned. 
 
5. An Upgrade Customer cannot transfer, combine, swap or exchange all or part of 
an Upgrade Request with any other Upgrade Request or any other New Service 
Request within the same cycle. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT Part VIII.H 435 Upgrade Requests 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 4 
6. Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 416, Base Case Data, requirements shall 
apply to Upgrade Requests.  Transmission Provider will coordinate with Affected 
Systems as needed as set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
7. Prior to entering into a final Upgrade Construction Service Agreement (a form of 
which is located in Tariff, Part IX, Subpart E), an Upgrade Customer may assign 
its Upgrade Request to another entity only if the acquiring entity accepts and 
acquires all rights and obligations as identified in the Upgrade Request for such 
project. 
8. Cost Allocation: Each Upgrade Customer shall be obligated to pay for 100 
percent of the costs of the minimum amount of Network Upgrades necessary to 
accommodate its Upgrade Request and that would not have been incurred under 
the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan but for such Upgrade Request, net of 
benefits resulting from the construction of the upgrades, such costs not to be less 
than zero.  Such costs and benefits shall include costs and benefits such as those 
associated with accelerating, deferring, or eliminating the construction of 
Network Upgrades included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan either 
for reliability, or to relieve one or more transmission constraints and which, in the 
judgment of the Transmission Provider, are economically justified; the 
construction of Network Upgrades resulting from modifications to the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan to accommodate the Upgrade Request; or the 
construction of Supplemental Projects. 
9. Where the Upgrade Request calls for accelerating the construction of a Network 
Upgrade that is included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan and 
provided that the party(ies) with responsibility for such construction can 
accomplish such an acceleration, the Upgrade Customer shall pay all costs that 
would not have been incurred under the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan 
but for the acceleration of the construction of the upgrade.  The Responsible 
Customer(s) designated pursuant to Schedule 12 of the Tariff as having cost 
responsibility for such Network Upgrade shall be responsible for payment of only 
those costs that the Responsible Customer(s) would have incurred under the 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan in the absence of the New Service 
Request to accelerate the construction of the Network Upgrade. 
C. Initiating an Upgrade Request  
 
An Upgrade Customer must submit to Transmission Provider, electronically through 
Transmission Provider’s website, a completed and signed Upgrade Application and 
Studies Agreement (“Application”), a form of which is provided in Tariff, Part IX, 
Subpart K, including the required Study Deposit.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT Part VIII.H 435 Upgrade Requests 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 5 
1. A Request Number shall be assigned based upon the date and time a completed 
and executed Upgrade Application and Studies Agreement and deposit is received 
by the Transmission Provider.  
 
2. A valid Upgrade Request shall be established when the Transmission Provider 
receives the last required agreement element, including the required deposits, 
from the Upgrade Customer, and the deficiency review for such Upgrade Request 
is complete.   
 
a. Application Requirements for Upgrade Requests Pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.8 
 
For Transmission Provider to consider an Application complete, the 
Upgrade Customer must include, at a minimum, each of the following, as 
further described in the Application and PJM Manuals: 
 
i. The MW amount of requested Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights (IARRs), including the source and sink locations and 
desired commencement date, and;  
 
ii. A Study Deposit in the amount of $150,000, in accordance with 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart H, section 435(B) Overview, above. 
 
b. Application Requirements for Merchant Network Upgrade Requests 
 
For Transmission Provider to consider an Application complete, the 
Upgrade Customer must include, at a minimum, each of the following, as 
further described in the Application and PJM Manuals: 
 
i. the MVA or MW amount by which the normal or emergency 
rating of the identified facility is to be increased, together with the 
desired in-service date; or the Regional Transmission Expansion 
Plan project number and planned and requested advancement 
dates;  
 
ii. the substation or transmission facility or facilities where the 
upgrade(s) will be made;  
 
iii. the increase in capability (in MW or MVA) of the proposed 
Merchant Network Upgrade;  
 
iv. if requesting Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights (ICTRs), 
identification of up to three Locational Deliverability Areas 
(LDAs) in which to determine the ICTRs;   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT Part VIII.H 435 Upgrade Requests 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 6 
v. the planned date the proposed Merchant Network Upgrade will be 
in service, such date to be no more than seven years from the date 
the request is received by the Transmission Provider, unless the 
Upgrade Customer demonstrates that engineering, permitting, and 
construction of the Merchant Network Upgrade will take more 
than seven years; and  
 
vi. A Study Deposit in the amount of $150,000, in accordance with 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart H, section 435(B) Overview, above. 
 
D. Deficiency Review 
 
Upon receiving a completed and executed Application, together with the Study Deposit, 
Transmission Provider will review the Application and establish the validity of the 
request, beginning with a deficiency review, as follows: 
 
1. Transmission Provider will exercise Reasonable Efforts to inform Upgrade 
Customer of Application deficiencies within 15 Business Days after Transmission 
Provider’s receipt of the completed Application. 
 
2. Upgrade Customer then has 10 Business Days to respond to Transmission 
Provider’s deficiency determination. 
 
3. Transmission Provider then will exercise Reasonable Efforts to review Upgrade 
Customer’s response within 15 Business Days, and then will either validate or 
reject the Application. 
 
E. System Impact Study  
 
After receiving a valid Upgrade Request, the Transmission Provider, in collaboration 
with the Transmission Owner, shall conduct a System Impact Study. Prior to the 
commencement of the System Impact Study, the Transmission Provider may have a 
scoping meeting with the Upgrade Customer to discuss the Upgrade Request. 
 
1. System Impact Study Requirements 
 
The System Impact Study shall identify the system constraints, identified with 
specificity by transmission element or flowgate, relating to the Upgrade Request 
included therein and any resulting Network Upgrades or Contingent Facilities 
required to accommodate such Upgrade Request. 
 
The System Impact Study shall also include:  
 
a. the list and facility loading of all reliability criteria violations specific to 
the Upgrade Request. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT Part VIII.H 435 Upgrade Requests 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 7 
 
b. estimates of cost responsibility and construction lead times for new 
facilities and system upgrades.  
 
c. include the amount of incremental rights available, as applicable 
 
2. Contingent Facilities. 
 
Transmission Provider shall identify the Contingent Facilities in the System 
Impact Studies by reviewing unbuilt Network Upgrades, upon which the Upgrade 
Customer’s cost, timing and study findings are dependent and, if delayed or not 
built, could cause a need for interconnection restudies of the Upgrade Request or 
reassessment of the unbuilt Network Upgrades.  The method for identifying 
Contingent Facilities shall be sufficiently transparent to determine why a specific 
Contingent Facility was identified and how it relates to the Upgrade Request.  
Transmission Provider shall include the list of the Contingent Facilities in the 
System Impact Study(ies), including why a specific Contingent Facility was 
identified and how it relates to the Upgrade Request.  Transmission Provider shall 
also provide, upon request of the Upgrade Customer, the Network Upgrade costs 
and estimated in-service completion time of each identified Contingent Facility 
when this information is readily available and non-commercially sensitive. 
 
a. Minimum Thresholds to Identify Contingent Facilities 
 
i. Load Flow Violations 
Load flow violations will be identified based on an impact on an overload 
of at least five percent distribution factor (DFAX) or contributing 
at least five percent of the facility rating in the applicable model. 
 
ii. Short Circuit Violations 
Short circuit violations will be identified based on the following 
criteria: any contribution to an overloaded facility where the New 
Service Request increases the fault current impact by at least one 
percent or greater of the rating in the applicable model. 
 
iii. Stability and Dynamic Criteria Violations 
Stability and dynamic criteria violations will be identified based on 
any contribution to a stability violation. 
 
3. System Impact Study Results 
 
Transmission Provider shall conduct a System Impact Study, and provide the 
Upgrade Customer a System Impact report on Transmission Provider’s website.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT Part VIII.H 435 Upgrade Requests 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 8 
To proceed with the Upgrade Request process, within 30 days of Transmission 
Provider issuing the System Impact Study report, Transmission Provider must 
receive from the Upgrade Customer:  
a. a Readiness Deposit, by wire transfer, equal to 20 percent of the cost 
allocation for the Network Upgrades as calculated in the System Impact 
Study report.  
b.  Notification in writing that Upgrade Customer elects to exercise the 
Option to Build for Stand Alone Network Upgrades identified with respect 
to its Upgrade Request.  
 
If the 30th day does not fall on a Business Day, then the Readiness 
Deposit shall be due on the next Business Day thereafter.  
 
c. If Transmission Provider does not receive the Readiness Deposit equal to 
20 percent from the Upgrade Customer within 30 days of Transmission 
Provider issuing the System Impact Study report, then Transmission 
Provider shall deem the Upgrade Request to be terminated and withdrawn, 
and the Upgrade Request will be removed from all studies and will lose its 
priority position. 
 
d. No modifications of any type for any reason are permitted to the Upgrade 
Request at this point in the Upgrade Request process.  
 
e. Upgrade Customer may not elect Option to Build after such date.   
 
4. If the Readiness Deposit is received by the Transmission Provider within 30 days 
of the Transmission Provider issuing the System Impact Study report, 
Transmission Provider will proceed with the Facilities Study for the Upgrade 
Request.  
 
F. Facilities Study 
 
The Facilities Study will provide the final details regarding the type, scope and 
construction schedule of Network Upgrades and any other facilities that may be required 
to accommodate the Upgrade Request, and will provide the Upgrade Customer with a 
final estimate of the Upgrade Customer’s cost responsibility for the Upgrade Request. 
Upon completion of the Facilities Study the Transmission Provider will provide the 
Facilities Study report on Transmission Provider’s website, and provide a draft Upgrade 
Construction Service Agreement (a form of which is located in Tariff, Part IX, Subpart 
E). 
 
G. Upgrade Customer Final Agreement Negotiation Phase 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT Part VIII.H 435 Upgrade Requests 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 9 
1. Transmission Provider shall use Reasonable Efforts to complete the Final 
Agreement Negotiation Phase within 60 days of the start of such Phase.  The 
Final Agreement Negotiation Phase shall commence on the first Business Day 
immediately following the tendering of the Facilities Study. The purpose of the 
Final Agreement Negotiation Phase is to negotiate and enter into a final Upgrade 
Construction Service Agreement found in Tariff, Part IX, Subpart E; conduct any 
remaining analyses or updated analyses and adjust the Security obligation based 
on higher priority Upgrade Request(s) withdrawn during the Final Agreement 
Negotiation Phase. If the 60th day does not fall on a Business Day, the phase shall 
be extended to end on the next Business Day.  
 
a. If an Upgrade Request is withdrawn during the Final Agreement 
Negotiation Phase, the Transmission Provider shall remove the Upgrade 
Request from the upgrade study process, and adjust the Security 
obligations of other Upgrade Requests based on the withdrawal. 
 
2. Final Agreement Negotiation Phase Procedures. The Final Agreement 
Negotiation Phase shall consist of the following terms and procedures: 
 
Transmission Provider shall provide in electronic form a draft Upgrade 
Construction Service Agreement to the parties to such agreement prior to the start 
of the Final Agreement Negotiation Phase.  
 
a. Security is required within 30 days of the Transmission Provider’s 
issuance of the draft Upgrade Construction Service Agreement (a form of 
which is located in Tariff, Part IX, Subpart E).  If the 30th day does not 
fall on a Business Day, the security due date shall be extended to end on 
the next Business Day.  
b. Negotiation 
Parties may use not more than 60 days following the start of the Final 
Agreement Negotiation Phase to conduct negotiations concerning the draft 
agreements.  If the 60 th day is not a Business Day, negotiations shall 
conclude on the next Business Day.  Upon receipt of the draft agreements, 
Upgrade Customer, and Transmission Owner, as applicable, shall have no 
more than 20 Business Days to return written comments on the draft 
agreements.  Transmission Provider shall have no more than 10 Business 
Days to respond and, if appropriate, provide revised drafts of the 
agreements in electronic form.  Transmission Provider, in its sole 
discretion, may allow more than 60 days for the Final Agreement 
Negotiation Phase. 
 
c. Impasse 
If the Upgrade Customer, or Transmission Owner, as applicable, 
determines that final agreement negotiations are at an impasse, such party 
shall notify the other parties of the impasse, and such party may request 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT Part VIII.H 435 Upgrade Requests 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 10 
Transmission Provider to file the unexecuted agreement with FERC or 
request in writing dispute resolution as allowed under Tariff, Part I, 
section 12 or, if concerning the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, 
consistent with Operating Agreement, Schedule 5.  If Transmission 
Provider, in its sole discretion, determines that the negotiations are at an 
impasse, Transmission Provider shall notify the other parties of the 
impasse, and may file the unexecuted agreement with the FERC. 
 
d. Execution and Filing 
Not later than five Business Days following the end of negotiations within 
the Final Agreement Negotiation Phase, Transmission Provider shall 
provide the final Upgrade Construction Service Agreement, to the parties 
in electronic form.   
 
i. Not later than 15 Business Days after receipt of the Upgrade 
Construction Service  Agreement, Upgrade Customer shall either: 
 
(a) execute the final Upgrade Construction Service Agreement 
in electronic form and return it to Transmission Provider 
electronically;  
 
(b) request in writing dispute resolution as allowed under 
Tariff, Part I, section 12 or, if concerning the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan, consistent with Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 5; or  
 
(c) request in writing that Transmission Provider file with 
FERC the Upgrade  Construction Service Agreement 
unexecuted, with the Upgrade Construction  Service 
Agreement containing terms and conditions deemed 
appropriate by Transmission Provider, and provide any 
required adjustments to Security. 
 
ii. If an Upgrade Customer executes the final Upgrade Construction 
Service Agreement, then, not later than 15 Business Days after 
PJM sends notification to the relevant Transmission Owner, the 
relevant Transmission Owner shall either: 
 
(a) execute the final Upgrade Construction Service Agreement 
in electronic form and return it to Transmission Provider 
electronically;  
 
(b) request in writing dispute resolution as allowed under 
Tariff, Part I, section 12 or, if concerning the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan, consistent with Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 5; or  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT Part VIII.H 435 Upgrade Requests 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 11 
 
(c) request in writing that Transmission Provider file with 
FERC the final Upgrade Construction Service Agreement 
in unexecuted form.   
 
The unexecuted Upgrade Construction Service Agreement shall 
contain terms and conditions deemed appropriate by Transmission 
Provider for the Upgrade Request. 
 
iii. Parties may not proceed under such Upgrade Construction Service 
Agreement until: (i) 30 days after such agreement, if executed and 
nonconforming, has been filed with the Commission; (ii) such 
agreement, if unexecuted, has been filed with and accepted by the 
Commission; or (iii) the earlier of 30 days after such agreement, if 
conforming, has been executed or has been reported in 
Transmission Provider’s Electronic Quarterly Reports. 
 
H. Upgrade Construction Service Agreement 
 
In the event that construction of facilities by more than one Transmission Owner is 
required, the Transmission Provider will tender a separate Upgrade Construction Service 
Agreement for each such Transmission Owner and the facilities to be constructed on its 
transmission system.  
 
1. Cost Reimbursement 
 
Pursuant to the Upgrade Construction Service Agreement, a Upgrade Customer  
shall agree to reimburse the Transmission Provider (for the benefit of the affected 
Transmission Owners) for the Costs, determined in accordance with Tariff, Part 
VIII, Subpart C, section 404(A)(5) of constructing Distribution Upgrades, and/or 
Network Upgrades necessary to accommodate its New Service Request to the 
extent that the Transmission Owner is responsible for building such facilities 
pursuant to Tariff, Part VIII and the applicable Upgrade Construction Service 
Agreement.  The Upgrade Construction Service Agreement shall obligate the 
Upgrade Customer to reimburse the Transmission Provider (for the benefit of the 
affected Transmission Owner(s)) as the Transmission Owner’s expenditures for 
the design, engineering, and construction of the facilities that it is responsible for 
building pursuant to the Upgrade Construction Service Agreement are made.  The 
Transmission Provider shall distribute the revenues received under this Tariff, 
Part VIII, Subpart H, section 435 to the affected Transmission Owner(s). 
 
2. Upgrade-Related Rights 
 
The Upgrade Construction Service Agreement shall specify Upgrade-Related 
Rights to which the Upgrade Customer is entitled pursuant to Tariff, Part VIII, 
Subpart E, sections 426, 427, 428, and 430, except to the extent the applicable 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT Part VIII.H 435 Upgrade Requests 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 12 
terms of Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, sections 426, 427, 428, and 430 provide 
otherwise. 
 
3. Specification of Transmission Owners Responsible for Facilities and Upgrades 
 
The Facilities Study (or the System Impact Study, if a Facilities Study is not 
required) shall specify the Transmission Owner(s) that will be responsible, subject 
to the terms of the applicable Upgrade Construction Service Agreement, for the 
construction of facilities and upgrades, determined in a manner consistent with 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 6. 
 
I. Withdraw or Termination 
 
1. If an Upgrade Customer decides to withdraw its Upgrade Request, Transmission 
Provider must receive written notification from the Upgrade Customer of Upgrade 
Customer’s decision to withdraw its Upgrade Request.  
 
2. Transmission Provider may deem an Upgrade Request terminated and withdrawn 
for failing to meet any of the requirements, as set forth in this Tariff, Part VIII, 
Subpart H. 
 
3. If an Upgrade Request is either withdrawn or deemed terminated and withdrawn, 
it will be removed from the Upgrade Request process and all relevant models, 
and, as applicable, the Readiness Deposits and Study Deposits will be disbursed 
as follows:  
 
a. For Readiness Deposits: At the conclusion of Transmission Provider’s 
Facility Study, refund to the Upgrade Customer 100 percent of Readiness 
Deposit paid by the Upgrade Customer. 
 
b. For Study Deposits: At the point at which the Upgrade Customer 
requested to withdraw the Upgrade Request or the Transmission Provider 
terminated the Upgrade Request, refund to the Upgrade Customer up to 90 
percent of its Study Deposit submitted with its Upgrade Request during 
the Application less any actual costs for studies conducted up to and 
including the point of withdraw or termination of such Upgrade Request. 
 
c. Up to and including the point of withdraw or termination of such Upgrade 
Request. 
 
J. Transmission Provider Website Postings 
 
The Transmission Provider shall maintain on the Transmission Provider's website a list of 
all Upgrade Requests.  The list will identify, as applicable: 
 
1. the increase in capability in megawatts (MW) or megavolt-amperes (MVA);  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT Part VIII.H 435 Upgrade Requests 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 13 
 
2. the megawatt amount of requested Incremental Auction Revenue Rights (IARRs); 
 
3. the station or transmission line or lines where the upgrade(s) will be made;  
 
4. the requested source and sink locations 
 
5. the proposed in-service or commencement date;  
 
6. the status of the Upgrade Request, including its Request Number;  
 
7. the availability of any studies related to the Upgrade Request;  
 
8. the date of the Upgrade Request; and  
 
9.  for each Upgrade Request that has not resulted in a completed upgrade, an 
explanation of why it was not completed.  
 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT VIII Subpart I INITIAL FUNDING OF NETWORK UPGRADES 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2114-001 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart I 
  
TRANSMISSION OWNER INITIAL FUNDING OF NETWORK UPGRADES  
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT VIII Subpart I INITIAL FUNDING OF NETWORK UPGRADES --> OATT Part VIII.I 436 Initial 
Funding of Network Upgrades 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2114-001 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart I, section 436 
Transmission Owner Initial Funding of Network Upgrades 
 
(a) Transmission Owner’s Right:  Notwithstanding anything in this Tariff to the contrary, the 
Transmission Owner shall have the right to elect to fund the capital cost for the Network 
Upgrades (including Stand Alone Network Upgrades) associated with the interconnection of an 
Generation Project Developer, including in cases where the Generation Project Developer 
exercises the Option to Build under a GIA, Tariff, Part IX, Subpart B, Schedule L, section 
11.2.3.  If the Transmission Owner elects to fund the capital costs of the Network Upgrades, 
written notice of the Transmission Owner’s election shall be provided to the Transmission 
Provider and Generation Project Developer in the Facility Study Report as stated in Tariff, Part 
VIII, Subpart I section 436, and the Parties shall enter into a Network Upgrade Funding 
Agreement to memorialize the terms of repayment for those Network Upgrades that the 
Transmission Owner elected to self-fund.  The Network Upgrade Funding Agreement shall take 
the form of the pro forma Network Upgrade Funding Agreement that is included in Tariff, Part 
IX, Subpart M.  The Generation Project Developer or Transmission Owner may request in 
writing that Transmission Provider file the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement with FERC in 
unexecuted form.   
 
(b) Timing:  Transmission Provider will maintain on its website a Transmission Owner’s general 
non-binding indication as to whether the Transmission Owner intends to elect to fund the capital 
costs (self-fund) for Network Upgrades.  Transmission Provider will also maintain on its website 
a list of the projects for which a Transmission Owner has elected to self-fund Network Upgrades.  
Each impacted Transmission Owner shall indicate whether it intends to self-fund a specific 
Network Upgrade identified during the Phase II System Impact Study in the Phase II Facility 
Study Report. Each impacted Transmission Owner shall further indicate whether it intends to 
self-fund a specific Network Upgrade identified during the Phase III System Impact Study in the 
Phase III Facility Study Report.  If the impacted Transmission Owner does not identify its 
election to self-fund Network Upgrades in the Phase II Facility Study Report or Phase III Facility 
Study Report, as applicable, the Transmission Owner shall be deemed to have waived its self-
fund election option for the Network Upgrades.  
 
If the Transmission Owner has elected to fund the capital for the Network Upgrades, the 
Transmission Provider shall tender to the Generation Project Developer a Network Upgrade 
Funding Agreement at the same time that it tenders a draft GIA from Tariff, Part IX.  In the 
event that construction of facilities by more than one Transmission Owner is required, the 
Transmission Provider will tender a separate Network Upgrade Funding Agreement for each 
such Transmission Owner and the facilities to be constructed on its transmission system.  
Further, if there are multiple Generation Project Developers whose interconnection service 
requests cause the need for the construction of a Network Upgrade and who are allocated a share 
of the cost of the Network Upgrade, each Generation Project Developer shall be responsible for 
its allocated share of the costs of the Network Upgrade that the Transmission Owner elects to 
fund.  The Transmission Provider shall provide to the Transmission Owner(s) a copy of the 
Network Upgrade Funding Agreement when these agreements are provided to the Generation 
Project Developer for execution.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT VIII Subpart I INITIAL FUNDING OF NETWORK UPGRADES --> OATT Part VIII.I 436 Initial 
Funding of Network Upgrades 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2114-001 - Page 2 
Generation Project Developer shall either (1) have executed the tendered Network Upgrade 
Funding Agreement and it must be in the possession of the Transmission Provider and the 
Transmission Owner at the same time as the executed GIA, or, (2) have requested dispute 
resolution in accordance with the dispute resolution provisions of the Tariff, or that the Network 
Upgrade Funding Agreement be filed unexecuted with the Commission.  In the event that an 
Generation Project Developer or a Transmission Owner has requested dispute resolution 
proceedings or that the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement be filed unexecuted, construction 
of facilities and upgrades addressed in the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement shall be 
deferred until any disputes are resolved, unless otherwise agreed by the Generation Project 
Developer, the Transmission Owner and the Transmission Provider. 
 
Following execution of the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement by the Generation Project 
Developer, the Transmission Provider shall forward the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement to 
the Transmission Owner named as party to the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement.  The 
Transmission Owner shall execute and return the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement to the 
Transmission Provider no later than fifteen (15) Business Days following date of receipt of 
Network Upgrade Funding Agreement from the Transmission Provider, or, alternatively, request 
that the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement be filed unexecuted with the Commission unless 
the Transmission Owner requests dispute resolution under the Tariff.  However, in the event the 
Generation Project Developer has made changes to the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement 
tendered to the Generation Project Developer by the Transmission Provider which were not 
previously reviewed and approved by a representative of the Transmission Owner, the 
requirement for the Transmission Owner to return the document in the time specified shall not be 
applicable and the parties to the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement shall use due diligence to 
execute the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement as expeditiously as possible.  In the event the 
Transmission Owner does not execute and return the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement in 
the time specified above, the Transmission Provider shall advise the Generation Project 
Developer of the status of the execution of the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement.  The 
Generation Project Developer may then request: (i) dispute resolution under the Tariff; or (ii) 
that the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement be filed unexecuted with the Commission.  In all 
cases, the Generation Project Developer, Transmission Owner, and Transmission Provider may 
mutually agree to extend the time in which Transmission Owner must execute and return the 
Network Upgrade Funding Agreement. 
 
(d) Cross-Defaults:  A breach by the Generation Project Developer of any provision, covenant, or 
other term or condition contained in the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement shall be 
considered a breach under the GIA.  Such breach shall be subject to the terms of the GIA, 
Appendix 2, section 15.  If the default under the GIA results from the Generation Project 
Developer’s breach of the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement and subsequent failure to cure, 
the Transmission Owner and the Transmission Provider shall be entitled, but in no event 
required, to apply all rights and remedies available by reason of default under the GIA and the 
Network Upgrade Funding Agreement. 
 
(e) Transmission Owner’s Reimbursement Obligations under the Option to Build:  If the 
Generation Project Developer exercises the Option to Build under the GIA, Schedule L, Section 
11.2.3 and the Transmission Owner has elected to fund the Network Upgrades pursuant to this 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT VIII Subpart I INITIAL FUNDING OF NETWORK UPGRADES --> OATT Part VIII.I 436 Initial 
Funding of Network Upgrades 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2114-001 - Page 3 
section 436, then prior to the Generation Project Developer incurring any construction costs 
relating to the Option to Build and by the date specified in the Schedule of Work in GIA, 
Schedule L, Section 8 the Generation Project Developer shall provide Transmission Provider a 
quarterly statement of Generation Project Developer’s scheduled expenditures during the next 
three months for the design, engineering and construction of, and/or for other charges related to 
the Network Upgrades.  Transmission Provider shall invoice the Transmission Owner on behalf 
of the Generation Project Developer for the estimated amount to be expended by the Generation 
Project Developer to construct any Network Upgrades for which the Generation Project 
Developer has exercised its Option to Build.  Transmission Provider shall invoice Transmission 
Owner on a quarterly basis for the costs estimated to be expended in the subsequent three 
months.  Transmission Owner shall pay Transmission Provider within twenty (20) calendar days 
of receipt of the invoice.  Upon receipt of Transmission Owner’s payments, Transmission 
Provider shall remit to the Generation Project Developer.  The timing of quarterly invoices and 
payments shall ensure that payment is received by Generation Project Developer prior to the date 
by which Generation Project Developer must make any construction payment for such Network 
Upgrades.   
 
Transmission Owner may request in the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement that the 
Transmission Provider provide a quarterly cost reconciliation.  Such a quarterly cost 
reconciliation will have a one-quarter lag, e.g., reconciliation of costs for the first calendar 
quarter of work will be provided at the start of the third calendar quarter of work, provided, 
however, that this section shall govern the timing of the final cost reconciliation upon completion 
of the work.   
 
After completion of the construction of Network Upgrades by the Generation Project Developer, 
Generation Project Developer shall provide an invoice of the final cost of the Network Upgrades 
and shall set forth such costs in sufficient detail to enable the Transmission Owner to compare 
the actual costs with the estimates and to ascertain deviations, if any, from the cost estimates.  In 
the event that the actual costs exceed the estimated costs previously invoiced by Generation 
Project Developer and paid by Transmission Owner, Transmission Owner shall pay to 
Generation Project Developer the difference between the amount previously paid and the actual 
costs within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of a final construction invoice from 
Generation Project Developer.  In the event that the actual costs are less than the estimated costs 
previously invoiced by Generation Project Developer and paid by Transmission Owner, 
Generation Project Developer shall refund, with interest (calculated in accordance with 18 C.F.R. 
Section 35.19a(a)(2)(iii)), to Transmission Owner any amount by which the actual payment by 
Transmission Owner for estimated costs exceeds the actual costs of construction within thirty 
(30) calendar days of the issuance of such final construction invoice.  Following the transfer of 
the Network Upgrades from the Generation Project Developer to the Transmission Owner, the 
Generation Project Developer shall make payments for such facilities to the Transmission Owner 
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement among the 
Parties.   
 
(f) Transition to the Implementation of the Transmission Owner Funding Mechanism:  For any 
Generating Facility for which the Generation Project Developer has not executed a Facilities 
Study Agreement, as set forth in Tariff, Attachment N-2, on or before October 1, 2021, the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII Subpart H 
UPGRADE REQUESTS --> OATT VIII Subpart I INITIAL FUNDING OF NETWORK UPGRADES --> OATT Part VIII.I 436 Initial 
Funding of Network Upgrades 
Effective Date: 10/5/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2114-001 - Page 4 
Transmission Owner shall have the right to elect to fund the Network Upgrades associated with 
that Generating Facility in accordance with the provisions of this section 436.  
 
(g) Nothing in this section 436 or the Network Upgrade Funding Agreement is intended to affect 
in any way the rights to which a Generation Project Developer is entitled pursuant to Tariff, Part 
VIII, Subpart E, except to the extent the applicable terms of Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E provide 
otherwise.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT VIII Subpart J 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart J 
 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION SERVICE 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT VIII Subpart J 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION --> OATT Part VIII.J 437 Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart J, section 437 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Service 
 
A. Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Request 
 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Requests may be made by an existing Project 
Developer whose Generating Facility is already interconnected and is being or has been 
deactivated, or one of its affiliates, or by an unaffiliated Replacement Generation Project 
Developer, provided that: 
 
1. The deactivating Generating Facility (a) has Capacity Interconnection Rights, (b) 
has provided written notice to Transmission Provider of the proposed Deactivation 
under Part V, section 113.1 or a Notice of Intent to Deactivate under this section in 
the form found on Transmission Provider’s website, and (c) has submitted a Notice 
of Intent to Transfer Capacity Interconnection Rights in the form found on 
Transmission Provider’s website.  To claim the Capacity Interconnection Rights 
under Tariff, Subpart E, section 426, the Replacement Generation Project 
Developer must include with its Replacement Generation Interconnection Service 
Request the notices under subsections (b) and (c) above to the extent those notices 
have not already been submitted to Transmission Provider as required. 
 
2. The Replacement Generation Resource may be of any fuel type, including stand 
alone battery storage devices, so long as the Replacement Generation Project 
Developer claims Capacity Interconnection Rights from a deactivating Generating 
Facility and requests for the Replacement Generation Resource to be a Generation 
Capacity Resource.  
 
3. The Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Request must be submitted 
prior to the expiration of the pertinent Capacity Interconnection Rights one year 
after the Deactivation Date. 
 
4. The Replacement Generation Resource must interconnect to the PJM Transmission 
System at the same substation (the electrical bus to which the Replacement 
Generation Resource is connecting must be the same bus or an electrically 
equivalent bus) and at the same voltage as the deactivating Generating Facility. 
 
5. The Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Request must be for 
Capacity Interconnection Rights and Maximum Facility Output that are less than 
or equal to the deactivating Generating Facility’s Capacity Interconnection Rights 
and Maximum Facility Output. 
 
6. The Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Request planned in-service 
date (as stated in the Replacement Generation Interconnection Study Agreement) 
can be no later than three (3) years from the Deactivation Date for the deactivating 
Generating Facility specified in the written notice to Transmission Provider of the 
proposed Deactivation under Tariff, Part V, section 113.1 , if applicable, or four (4) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT VIII Subpart J 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION --> OATT Part VIII.J 437 Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 2 
years from the date on which the Replacement Generation Project Developer 
submits its Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Request. 
 
a. The planned in-service date will be used to develop the draft 
Generation Interconnection Agreement milestone dates described in 
section 437(C)(1)(f). 
 
b. Notwithstanding the planned in-service date requirement of this 
subsection 437(A)(6) the Replacement Generation Resource may 
not be placed in service prior to the actual Deactivation Date of the 
deactivating Generating Facility. 
 
c. In no event shall the milestone dates exceed three (3) years beyond 
the planned in-service date. 
 
d. Nothing in this section, or in the Tariff, prohibits a Replacement 
Generation Project Developer from seeking a waiver from the 
Commission or from the Transmission Provider supporting such 
request at its discretion.  
 
B. Applications for Replacement Generation Interconnection Service  
 
1. Applications for Replacement Generation Interconnection Service must include a 
complete and executed Replacement Generation Interconnection Study Agreement, 
in the form located at Tariff, Part IX, Subpart N.   
 
2. Applications for Replacement Generation Interconnection Service must include the 
evidence of Site Control that is required of New Service Requests at Decision Point 
III under Tariff, Subpart C, section 410(A)(1)(c), except that the ability to change 
the required Site Control evidence to a condition precedent in the final 
interconnection-related agreement in Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart C, section 
410(A)(1)(c)(iv) shall not apply. 
 
3. Applications for Replacement Generation Interconnection Service must include the 
evidence that the Replacement Generation Project Developer has: (a) any necessary 
fuel delivery agreement(s) and water agreement(s), and (b) any necessary rights-
of-way for fuel and water interconnections, that is required of New Service 
Requests at Decision Point III under Tariff, Subpart C, section 410(A)(1)(e).   
 
4. To be considered complete at the time of submission, an Application for 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Service must include, at a minimum, each 
of the following: 
 
a. Information concerning the Replacement Generation Project Developer, 
including the name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address of 
Replacement Generation Project Developer; an Internal Revenue Service 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT VIII Subpart J 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION --> OATT Part VIII.J 437 Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 3 
Form W-9 or comparable state-issued document for Replacement 
Generation Project Developer; documentation proving the existence of a 
legally binding relationship between Replacement Generation Project 
Developer and any entity with a vested interest in this Agreement and 
associated project (e.g., a parent company, a subsidiary, or financing 
company acting as agent for Replacement Generation Project Developer); 
and Replacement Generation Project Developer's banking information, or 
the banking information of any entity with a legally binding relationship to 
Replacement Generation Project Developer that wishes to make payments 
and receive refunds on behalf of Replacement Generation Project 
Developer, in association with this Agreement and corresponding project: 
 
b. Specification of the location of the proposed Replacement Generation 
Resource’s Site or the existing deactivating Generating Facility’s Site 
(include both a written description, e.g., street address, global positioning 
coordinates, and attach a map in PDF format depicting the property 
boundaries and the location of the generating unit Site); 
 
c. The megawatt size of the proposed Replacement Generation Resource; 
 
d. Identification of the fuel type of the proposed Replacement Generation 
Resource; 
 
e. A description of the equipment configuration, and a set of preliminary 
electrical design specifications, and, if the proposed Replacement 
Generation Resource is a wind generation facility, then the set of 
preliminary electrical design specifications must depict the wind plant as a 
single equivalent generator; 
 
f. The planned in-service date of the proposed Replacement Generation 
Resource, evidenced by (i) a critical path construction schedule (“Project 
Schedule”) showing how the Replacement Generation Project Developer 
will achieve the planned in service date, (ii) an attestation executed by an 
officer or authorized representative of the Replacement Generation Project 
Developer, verifying the accuracy of the information in the Project 
Schedule, including all dates, and certifying that the Applicant will exercise 
commercially reasonable best efforts to achieve these dates, and (iii) 
information and documentation supporting the Project Schedule.  An 
Application for Replacement Generation Interconnection Service that does 
not include the required attestation shall not be considered complete and 
shall be rejected; 
 
g. A copy of either the written notice to Transmission Provider of the proposed 
Deactivation under Part V, section 113.1 or the Notice of Intent to 
Deactivate under this section 437, and a copy of the Notice of Intent to 
Transfer Capacity Interconnection Rights. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT VIII Subpart J 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION --> OATT Part VIII.J 437 Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 4 
 
h. Identification of the specific deactivating Generating Facility already 
interconnected to the PJM Transmission System, including whether the 
Replacement Generation Project Developer requesting Replacement 
Generation Interconnection Service is the owner or affiliate of the owner of 
the deactivating Generating Facility; 
 
i. Any additional information as may be prescribed by the Transmission 
Provider in the PJM Manuals; 
 
j. A deposit in the amount of $60,000.  Replacement Generation Project 
Developer is responsible for actual study costs, which may exceed the 
deposit amount.  If Transmission Provider sends Replacement Generation 
Project Developer notification of additional study costs, then Replacement 
Generation Project Developer must either: (i) pay all additional study costs 
within 20 days of Transmission Provider sending the notification of such 
additional study costs or (ii) withdraw its Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Service Request.  If Replacement Generation Project 
Developer fails to complete either (i) or (ii), then Transmission Provider 
shall deem the Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Request to 
be terminated and withdrawn.  If any deposit monies remain after the 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Study is complete and any 
outstanding monies owed by the Replacement Generation Project 
Developer in connection with outstanding invoices related to prior New 
Service  Requests, Surplus Interconnection Requests, and/or Replacement 
Generation Interconnection Service Requests by the Replacement 
Generation Project Developer have been paid, such remaining deposit 
monies shall be returned to the Replacement Generation Project Developer; 
and 
 
k. If the proposed Replacement Generation Resource is an Energy Storage 
Resource, the Replacement Generation Project Developer must submit the 
primary frequency response operating range for the Replacement 
Generation Resource. 
 
5. Transmission Provider shall commence review of Applications for Replacement 
Generation Interconnection Service as soon as practicable upon receipt and in the 
order received.  Transmission Provider will evaluate and process Applications for 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Service through a separate Replacement 
Generation Interconnection Service process that proceeds in parallel with the Cycle 
Process.  
 
6. Deficiency Review.  Upon receipt of the Application for Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Service, the Replacement Generation Interconnection Study 
Agreement, and the requisite information and deposit monies listed in subsection 
437(B)(1) through (4), Transmission Provider first shall determine whether the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT VIII Subpart J 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION --> OATT Part VIII.J 437 Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 5 
materials, information, and monies submitted are valid or deficient.  If deemed 
deficient by Transmission Provider, the Replacement Generation Project Developer 
must submit the requisite materials, information, and/or monies acceptable to the 
Transmission Provider within 10 Business Days of receipt of the Transmission 
Provider’s notice of deficiency.  Failure of the Replacement Generation Project 
Developer to timely provide materials, information, and/or monies identified in the 
deficiency notice shall result in the Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Service Request being terminated and withdrawn.  The Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Service Request shall be considered valid as of the date and time 
within the single 10 Business Day deficiency cure period the Transmission Provider 
receives from the Replacement Generation Project Developer the last piece of 
required materials, information, and/or monies deemed acceptable by the 
Transmission Provider to clear such deficiency notice.  Once the Transmission 
Provider determines the Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Request 
is a valid request, Transmission Provider shall confirm the assigned Replacement 
Generation Request Number for such request in accordance with Tariff, Part VIII, 
Subpart E, section 412(D). 
  
C. Processing of Valid Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Requests 
 
1. This Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart J, section 437(C) sets forth the procedures and other 
terms governing the Transmission Provider’s administration of the Replacement 
Generation Interconnection process.   
 
a. After reviewing an Application for Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Service, including Application receipt, deficiency review 
of the Application, determination that the Application represents a valid 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Request, and a 
kickoff/scoping meeting, if necessary, all of which is anticipated to take 
approximately sixty (60) days, Transmission Provider shall conduct a 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Study. 
 
b. Once an Application for Replacement Generation Interconnection Service 
has been determined to be a valid Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Service Request and Transmission Provider has commenced the 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Study, a Replacement Generation 
Project Developer: (i) may not reduce the megawatt values of the proposed 
Replacement Generation Resource’s Capacity Interconnection Rights or 
Maximum Facility Output except as provided in Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart 
J, section 437(C)(1)(d),; (ii) may not change the proposed Replacement 
Generation Resource’s fuel type; (iii) may not change the Site of the 
proposed Replacement Generation Resource or the Site Control evidence 
for that Site; (iv) may make Permissible Technological Advancement 
changes only to the proposed Replacement Generation Resource’s 
equipment after it has an effective Generation Interconnection Agreement 
and proceeds via a Necessary Study Agreement; (v) may make changes to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT VIII Subpart J 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION --> OATT Part VIII.J 437 Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 6 
the proposed Replacement Generation Resource’s Point of Interconnection, 
provided that the Point of Interconnection must continue to be at the same 
substation (the electrical bus to which the Replacement Generation 
Resource is connecting must be the same bus or an electrically equivalent 
bus) and same voltage level as the deactivating Generating Facility’s Point 
of Interconnection, the change is considered Good Utility Practice as agreed 
by the Interconnecting Transmission Owner, and Transmission Provider 
determines the change to the Point of Interconnection does not materially 
and adversely affect the cost or timing of other interconnection requests; 
and (vi) may amend the proposed Replacement Generation Resource to 
remove a Material Adverse Impact determined pursuant to Tariff, Part VIII, 
Subpart J, section 437(C)(1)(d). 
 
c. The Replacement Generation Interconnection Study, which is anticipated to 
take approximately one hundred eighty (180) days, shall consist of an 
impact study to determine if interconnection of the proposed Replacement 
Generation Resource would cause any thermal/voltage, stability, or short 
circuit planning criteria violations and a facilities study performed by the 
relevant Transmission Owner.  A voltage increase or decrease, as identified 
in any applicable voltage analyses, will not automatically trigger a screen 
failure under the impact study unless a voltage threshold defined in 
Transmission Provider’s documented planning criteria (its FERC Form No. 
715 -- Annual Transmission Planning and Evaluation Report) is exceeded.  
All types of Generating Facilities will be studied as Replacement 
Generation Resources using the most recent Cycle Phase II System Impact 
Study model available or, if available, the most recent Cycle Phase III 
System Impact Study model.  The scope of the impact study shall be the 
same as the Cycle Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III System Impact Studies 
and will include a contingency analysis consistent with NERC’s, PJM’s, 
and each Applicable Regional Entity’s reliability criteria and the 
transmission planning criteria, methods and procedures described in the 
FERC Form No. 715 for each Applicable Regional Entity, an assessment of 
regional transmission upgrades that most effectively meet identified needs, 
and an analysis to determine cost allocation responsibility for required 
facilities and upgrades.  The facilities study conducted by the relevant 
Transmission Owner will develop the costs and construction time estimates 
for any of the following determined in an impact study to be needed in 
connection with the Replacement Generation Interconnection Service 
Request: new interconnection facilities, metering/relaying equipment, and 
new Network Upgrades.  The Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Process rules under this Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart J, section 437, including 
whether new interconnection facilities may be required or new Network 
Upgrades are required, will dictate the permitted scope of the facilities 
study. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT VIII Subpart J 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION --> OATT Part VIII.J 437 Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 7 
d. A “Material Adverse Impact” for purposes of the Replacement Generation 
Interconnection process shall mean thermal/voltage, stability or short circuit 
reliability criteria violations.  If Transmission Provider determines that 
interconnection of a Replacement Generation Resource will cause a 
Material Adverse Impact to the Transmission System, the Replacement 
Generation Project Developer will be given fifteen (15) Business Days after 
receiving the impact study results to submit changes to the proposed 
Replacement Generation Resource to eliminate the Material Adverse 
Impact.  This opportunity to amend the proposed Replacement Generation 
Resource to address a Material Adverse Impact may be exercised only once.  
Following the one-time submission of changes to address a Material 
Adverse Impact, Transmission Provider shall use the changed parameters 
to retool its analyses. 
 
e. Replacement Generation Resource projects will not share with other 
Replacement Generation Resources or with New Service Requests in the 
Cycle Process the cost of Network Upgrades necessitated by their 
interconnection with the Transmission System if they are deemed to use the 
same system headroom.  Instead, cost responsibility for Network Upgrades 
will be based on the “first to cause” rule, under which a Replacement 
Generation Interconnection Service Request first to cause a constraint will 
be responsible for addressing the constraint and responsible for 100% of 
any associated Network Upgrade costs. 
 
f. At the conclusion of the Replacement Generation Interconnection Study, 
Transmission Provider will provide to the Replacement Generation Project 
Developer a Replacement Generation Interconnection Study report, 
providing the results of the impact study and the facilities study.  
Transmission Provider will tender with the study report a draft Generation 
Interconnection Agreement in the form of agreement found at Tariff, Part 
IX, Subpart B. 
 
g. Generation Interconnection Agreement Negotiation.   
 
i. The rules for Generation Interconnection Agreement negotiation 
shall, unless otherwise specified in this Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart J, 
section 437, follow the Generation Interconnection Agreement 
negotiation rules provided in Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart D, section 
411, and the Execution Deadlines provided in Tariff, Part IX, 
section 500.  The Milestones requirements of Tariff, Part VIII, 
Subpart E, section 429, also shall apply. 
 
ii. Within thirty (30) days after the Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Developer receives the Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Study report and a draft Generation Interconnection 
Agreement, the Replacement Generation Project Developer shall be 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT VIII Subpart J 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION --> OATT Part VIII.J 437 Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 8 
required to post 100% of the Security required in its Generation 
Interconnection Agreement and to provide evidence that it has 
obtained any necessary local, county, and state site permits and 
signed a memorandum of understanding for the acquisition of major 
equipment.  If the Replacement Generation Project Developer fails 
to post 100% of the Security required for its Generation 
Interconnection Agreement by that date, its Replacement 
Generation Interconnection Service Request shall be deemed 
terminated and/or withdrawn. 
 
iii. The Replacement Generation Project Developer and Transmission 
Owner shall have no more than 20 Business Days after receipt of the 
draft Generation Interconnection Agreement to return written 
comments on that draft.  Transmission Provider shall have no more 
than 10 Business Days to respond to such comments and, if 
appropriate, provide a revised draft Generation Interconnection 
Agreement in electronic form.  Transmission Provider, in its sole 
discretion, may allow more than 60 days for this final Generation 
Interconnection Agreement negotiation. 
 
iv. The planned in service date set forth in the Application for 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Service shall be used to 
establish the milestone dates for the Replacement Generation 
Resource’s Generation Interconnection Agreement.  At the time of 
final negotiation of the Replacement Generation Resource’s 
Generation Interconnection Agreement and thereafter, following the 
Milestones provisions of Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 429, 
Transmission Provider may reasonably extend those milestone 
dates, including the in service date, in the event of delays not caused 
by the Replacement Generation Project Developer, such as 
unforeseen regulatory or construction delays that could not be 
remedied by the Replacement Generation Project Developer 
through the exercise of due diligence. 
 
v. If the Application for Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Service was submitted with a Notice of Intent to Deactivate and not 
the written notice to Transmission Provider of the proposed 
Deactivation under Part V, section 113.1, Transmission Provider 
must receive the written notice under Part V, section 113.1 before 
the Generation Interconnection Agreement is executed or the 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Request will be 
withdrawn. 
 
vi. Replacement Generation Project Developer agrees to waive the right 
to a one-year extension of its milestone dates for any reason as set 
forth in section 6.5 of the form of Generation Interconnection 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT VIII Subpart J 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION --> OATT Part VIII.J 437 Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 9 
Agreement (Tariff, Part IX, Subpart B), which will be reflected in 
its Generation Interconnection Agreement 
 
vii. Not later than five Business Days following the end of negotiations 
under subsection iii, Transmission Provider shall provide the final 
Generation Interconnection Agreement, along with any applicable 
schedules, to the parties in electronic form. Not later than 15 
Business Days after receipt of the final Generation Interconnection 
Agreement, the Replacement Generation Project Developer shall 
either execute the revised Generation Interconnection Agreement, 
request dispute resolution, or request that the Generation 
Interconnection Agreement be filed unexecuted. 
 
viii. If the Replacement Generation Project Developer executes the final 
Generation Interconnection Agreement, then, not later than 15 
Business Days after PJM sends notification to the relevant 
Transmission Owner, the relevant Transmission Owner shall either 
execute the final Generation Interconnection Agreement in 
electronic form; request dispute resolution; or request that the 
Generation Interconnection Agreement be filed unexecuted. 
 
h. Subject to the provisions of Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart E, section 414(B)(4), 
additional studies may not be needed to provide Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Service to a Replacement Generation Project Developer 
that has a Generating Facility that is currently operating utilizing Surplus 
Interconnection Service associated with a deactivating Generating Facility, 
as the studies performed to secure Surplus Interconnection Service may 
serve as the Replacement Generation Interconnection Study required for 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Service Requests. Regardless of 
whether additional studies are needed, a Replacement Generation Project 
Developer that has a Generating Facility that is currently operating utilizing 
Surplus Interconnection Service associated with a deactivating Generating 
Facility must submit an Application for Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Service pursuant to Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart J, section 
437(B) to transfer the deactivating Generating Facility’s Capacity 
Interconnection Rights to the Generating Facility currently utilizing Surplus 
Interconnection Service and make that Generating Facility a Replacement 
Generation Resource. 
 
i. Projects in Transition Cycle #1, Transition Cycle #2, or Cycle #1 that do 
not yet have a Generation Interconnection Agreement may submit 
Applications under this Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart J, section 437 for 
Replacement Generation Interconnection Service.  Transmission Provider 
shall study all valid Replacement Generation Interconnection Service 
Requests submitted from Transition Cycle #1, Transition Cycle #2, or Cycle 
#1 as soon as practicable upon receipt of such requests and, if the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT VIII Subpart J 
REPLACEMENT GENERATION INTERCONNECTION --> OATT Part VIII.J 437 Replacement Generation Interconnection 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 10 
Transmission Provider determines that such a Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Service Request does not cause the need for Network 
Upgrades, the project will be eligible to receive a Generation 
Interconnection Agreement through the Replacement Generation 
Interconnection Process under Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart J, section 437 and 
its Cycle Process project shall be terminated.  To the extent such movement 
of projects out of the Transition Cycle(s) or Cycle #1 changes the models 
used for the Transition Cycles’ or Cycle #1’s System Impact Studies, the 
effects on the models can be addressed during the next applicable Decision 
Point for those Cycle(s). 
 
2. Contingent Facilities, if any, would be identified during the impact study phase of 
the Replacement Generation Interconnection Study in the same manner they are 
identified in the Cycle Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III System Impact Studies (see 
Tariff, Part VIII, Subpart C, section 404(A)(3)) and shall be listed in the Generation 
Interconnection Agreement. 
 
3. Interim Studies of the Deliverability of Replacement Generation Resources, if 
necessary, would be addressed in the Generation Interconnection Agreement and 
in accordance with PJM Manual 14H. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VIII. NEW RULES GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROCEDURE --> OATT Part VIII 438 - 499 
[Reserved] 
Effective Date: 1/30/2026 - Docket #: ER26-403-001 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VIII, sections 438 – 499  
[Reserved] 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part IX 
FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX 500 Execution 
Deadlines 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part IX, Section 500, Execution Deadlines 
Unless otherwise stated in a specific agreement, the following provisions shall apply to any 
agreement under Tariff, Part IX, between Transmission Provider, a Project Developer, Eligible 
Customer, Upgrade Customer, or Affected System Customer and, where applicable, a 
Transmission Owner.  In addition to any other requirements under such agreement, no later than 
15 Business Days after Transmission Provider’s tender for execution of such agreement, Project 
Developer, Eligible Customer, Upgrade Customer, or Affected System Customer, shall either: (i) 
execute the agreement; (ii) request in writing dispute resolution as allowed under Tariff, Part I, 
section 12 or, if concerning the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, consistent with 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 5; or (iii) request in writing that the agreement be filed 
unexecuted with FERC.  Such agreement shall be deemed to be terminated and withdrawn if 
Project Developer, Eligible Customer, Upgrade Customer or Affected System Customer, fails to 
comply with these requirements.  If a Transmission Owner is party to the agreement, following 
tender of the agreement and no later than 15 Business Days after PJM sends notification to the 
relevant Transmission Owner that the Project Developer, Eligible Customer, Upgrade Customer 
or Affected System Customer has executed the agreement, Transmission Owner shall either: (i) 
execute the agreement; (ii) request in writing dispute resolution as allowed under Tariff, Part I, 
section 12 or, if concerning the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, consistent with 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 5; or (iii) request in writing that the agreement be filed 
unexecuted with FERC.  Following execution by Transmission Owner (or by the Project 
Developer if there is not Transmission Owner that is subject to the agreement) Transmission 
Provider shall either: (i) execute the agreement; (ii) request in writing dispute resolution as 
allowed under Tariff, Part I, section 12 or, if concerning the Regional Transmission Expansion 
Plan, consistent with Operating Agreement, Schedule 5; or (iii) file with FERC the agreement in 
unexecuted form.  Transmission Provider may also file the agreement with FERC in unexecuted 
form if Transmission Owner does not comply with the requirements above.  
 
With the filing of any unexecuted agreement, Transmission Provider may, in its discretion, 
propose to FERC a resolution of any or all of the issues in dispute between the parties. 
 
 
