[SCHEDULE 2 - Part 6 of 7]

If, following a Favorable Tax Determination, Upgrade Customer receives a refund pursuant to 
section 4.4, and, notwithstanding the Favorable Tax Determination, any Governmental Authority 
determines that Transmission Owner’s receipt of payments or property constitutes income that is 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 4 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
subject to taxation, Transmission Owner shall notify Upgrade Customer, in writing, within 30 
Calendar Days of receiving notification of such determination by a Governmental Authority.  
Upon the timely written request by Upgrade Customer and at Upgrade Customer’s sole expense, 
Transmission Owner may appeal, protest, seek abatement of, or otherwise oppose such 
determination.  Upon Upgrade Customer’s written request and sole expense, Transmission 
Owner may file a claim for refund with respect to any taxes paid under this Article, whether or 
not it has received such a determination.  Transmission Owner reserves the right to make all 
decisions with regard to the prosecution of such appeal, protest, abatement or other contest, 
including the selection of counsel and  compromise or settlement of the claim, but 
Transmission Owner shall keep Upgrade Customer informed, shall consider in good faith 
suggestions from Upgrade Customer about the conduct of the contest, and shall reasonably 
permit Upgrade Customer or a Upgrade Customer representative to attend contest proceedings.  
Upgrade Customer shall pay to Transmission Owner on a periodic basis, as invoiced by 
Transmission Owner, Transmission Owner’s documented reasonable costs of prosecuting such 
appeal, protest, abatement or other contest.  At any time during the contest, Transmission Owner 
may agree to a settlement either with Upgrade Customer’s consent or after obtaining written 
advice from nationally-recognized tax counsel, selected by Transmission Owner, but reasonably 
acceptable to Upgrade Customer, that the proposed settlement represents a reasonable settlement 
given the hazards of litigation.  Upgrade Customer’s obligation shall be based on the amount of 
the settlement agreed to by Upgrade Customer, or if a higher amount, so much of the settlement 
that is supported by the written advice from nationally-recognized tax counsel selected under the 
terms of the preceding sentence.   
 
4.6 Taxes Other Than Income Taxes.   
 
Upon the timely request by Upgrade Customer, and at Upgrade Customer’s sole expense, 
Transmission Owner may appeal, protest, seek abatement of, or otherwise contest any tax (other 
than federal or State income tax) asserted or assessed against Transmission Owner for which 
Upgrade Customer may be required to reimburse Transmission Owner under the terms of this 
Upgrade CSA.  Upgrade Customer shall pay to Transmission Owner on a periodic basis, as 
invoiced by Transmission Owner, Transmission Owner’s documented reasonable costs of 
prosecuting such appeal, protest, abatement, or other contest.  Upgrade Customer and 
Transmission Owner shall cooperate in good faith with respect to any such contest.  Unless the 
payment of such taxes is a prerequisite to an appeal or abatement or cannot be deferred, no 
amount shall be payable by Upgrade Customer to Transmission Owner for such taxes until they 
are assessed by a final, non-appealable order by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction.   
 
4.7 Tax Status.   
 
Each Party shall cooperate with the others to maintain the other Parties’ tax status.  Nothing in 
this Upgrade CSA is intended to adversely affect the Transmission Owner’s tax-exempt status 
with respect to the issuance of bonds including, but not limited to, local furnishing bonds. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 5 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
5.0 Safety 
 
5.1 General.   
 
Transmission Owner shall perform all work hereunder in accordance with Good Utility Practice, 
Applicable Standards and Applicable Laws and Regulations pertaining to the safety of persons or 
property. 
 
5.2 Environmental Releases.   
 
Transmission Owner shall notify Transmission Provider and Upgrade Customer, first orally and 
then in writing, of the release of any Hazardous Substances, any asbestos or lead abatement 
activities, or any type of remediation activities related to the facility or the facilities, any of 
which may reasonably be expected to affect Transmission Provider or Upgrade Customer.  
Transmission Owner shall:  (i) provide the notice as soon as possible; (ii) make a good faith 
effort to provide the notice within 24 hours after it becomes aware of the occurrence; and (iii) 
promptly furnish to Transmission Provider and Upgrade Customer copies of any publicly 
available reports filed with any governmental agencies addressing such events. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 6 
Effective Date: 8/12/2025 - Docket #: ER25-3145-000 - Page 1 
6.0 Schedule of Work 
 
6.1 Standard Option.   
 
The Transmission Owner shall use Reasonable Efforts to design, engineer, procure, construct 
and install Customer-Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, in 
accordance with the Schedule and Scope of Work. 
 
6.2 Negotiated Contract Option. 
 
As an alternative to the Standard Option set forth in section 6.1 of this Appendix III, the 
Transmission Owner and the Upgrade Customer may mutually agree to a Negotiated Contract 
Option for the Transmission Owner’s design, procurement, construction and installation of the 
Customer-Funded Upgrades. Under the Negotiated Contract Option, the Upgrade Customer and 
the Transmission Owner may agree to terms different from those included in the Standard Option 
of section 6.1 above and the corresponding standard terms set forth in the applicable provisions 
of the GIP and this Appendix III. Under the Negotiated Contract Option, negotiated terms may 
include the work schedule applicable to the Transmission Owner’s construction activities and 
changes to same; payment provisions, including the schedule of payments; incentives, penalties 
and/or liquidated damages related to timely completion of construction; use of third party 
contractors; and responsibility for Costs, but only as between the Upgrade Customer and the 
Transmission Owner that are parties to this Upgrade CSA; no other Upgrade Customer’s 
responsibility for Costs may be affected. No other terms of the Tariff or this Appendix III shall 
be subject to modification under the Negotiated Contract Option. The terms and conditions of the 
Tariff that may be negotiated pursuant to the Negotiated Contract Option shall not be affected by 
use of the Negotiated Contract Option except as and to the extent that they are modified by the 
parties’ agreement pursuant to such option. All terms agreed upon pursuant to the Negotiated 
Contract Option shall be stated in full in an appendix to this Upgrade CSA.  
 
6.3 Revisions to Schedule and Scope of Work.   
 
The Schedule and Scope of Work shall be revised as required in accordance with Transmission 
Provider’s scope change process for projects set forth in the PJM Manuals, or otherwise by 
mutual agreement of the Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner, which agreement shall 
not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.  The scope change process is intended to 
be used for changes to the Scope of Work as defined herein, and is not intended to be used to 
change any of the milestone set forth in the GIA.  Any change to the Scope of Work should be 
acknowledged by the Parties in  a scope change document. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 7 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
7.0 Suspension of Work upon Default 
 
Upon the occurrence of a Default by Upgrade Customer, the Transmission Provider or the 
Transmission Owner may, by written notice to Upgrade Customer, suspend further work 
associated with the Customer-Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, 
Transmission Owner is responsible for constructing.  Such suspension shall not constitute a 
waiver of any termination rights under this section 7.0.  In the event of a suspension by 
Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner, the Upgrade Customer shall be responsible for 
the Costs incurred in connection with any suspension hereunder. 
 
7.1 Notification and Correction of Defects. 
 
 7.1.1 In the event that inspection and/or testing of any  Customer-Funded Upgrades, 
identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, built by Transmission Owner identifies any 
defects or failures to comply with Applicable Standards in such  Customer-Funded Upgrades, 
then Transmission Owner shall take appropriate action to correct any such defects or failures 
within 20 days after it learns thereof.  If such a defect or failure cannot reasonably be corrected 
within such 20-day period, Transmission Owner shall commence the necessary correction within 
that time and shall thereafter diligently pursue it to completion. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 8 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
8.0 Transmission Outages 
 
8.1 Outages; Coordination.   
 
The Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner acknowledge and agree that certain outages 
of transmission facilities owned by the Transmission Owner, as more specifically detailed in the 
Scope of Work, may be necessary in order to complete the process of constructing and installing 
the Customer-Funded Upgrades identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA.  The 
Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner further acknowledge and agree that any such 
outages shall be coordinated by and through Transmission Provider. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 9 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
9.0 Security, Billing and Payments 
 
The following provisions shall apply with respect to charges for the Costs of the Transmission 
Owner for which the Upgrade Customer is responsible. 
 
9.1 Adjustments to Security.   
 
The Security provided by Upgrade Customer at or before the Effective Date of this Upgrade 
CSA shall be:  (a) reduced as portions of the work on  Customer-Funded Upgrades, identified in 
Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, are completed; and/or (b) increased or decreased as required to 
reflect adjustments to Upgrade Customer’s cost responsibility, to correspond with changes in the 
Scope of Work developed in accordance with Transmission Provider’s scope change process for 
projects set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
 
9.2 Invoice.   
 
Transmission Owner shall provide Transmission Provider a quarterly statement of its scheduled 
expenditures during the next three months for, as applicable the design, engineering and 
construction of, and/or for other charges related to, construction of the Customer-Funded 
Upgrades identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA.  Transmission Provider shall bill 
Upgrade Customer, on behalf of Transmission Owner, for Transmission Owner’s expected costs 
during the subsequent three months.  Upgrade Customer shall pay each bill within 20 days after 
receipt thereof.  Upon receipt of each of Upgrade Customer’s payments of such bills, 
Transmission Provider shall reimburse the Transmission Owner.  Upgrade Customer may request 
that the Transmission Provider provide quarterly cost reconciliation.  Such a quarterly cost 
reconciliation will have a one-quarter lag, e.g., reconciliation of costs for the first calendar 
quarter of work will be provided at the start of the third calendar quarter of work, provided, 
however, that section 9.3 of this Appendix III shall govern the timing of the final cost 
reconciliation upon completion of the work. 
 
9.3 Final Invoice.  
 
Within 120 days after Transmission Owner completes construction and installation of the 
Customer-Funded Upgrades under this Upgrade CSA, Transmission Provider shall provide 
Upgrade Customer with an accounting of, and the appropriate Party shall make any payment to 
the other that is necessary to resolve, any difference between:  (a) Upgrade Customer’s 
responsibility under the PJM Tariff for the Costs of the or Customer-Funded Upgrades identified 
in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA; and (b) Upgrade Customer’s previous aggregate payments 
to Transmission Provider for the Costs of the facilities identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade 
CSA.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, Transmission Provider shall not be obligated to 
make any payment to the Upgrade Customer or the Transmission Owner that the preceding 
sentence requires it to make unless and until the Transmission Provider has received the payment 
that it is required to refund from the Party owing the payment. 
 
9.4 Disputes.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 9 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
 
In the event of a billing dispute among the Transmission Provider, Transmission Owner, and 
Upgrade Customer, Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner shall continue to 
perform their respective obligations pursuant to this Upgrade CSA so long as:  (a) the Upgrade 
Customer continues to make all payments not in dispute, and the Security held by the 
Transmission Provider while the dispute is pending exceeds the amount in dispute; or (b) the 
Upgrade Customer pays to Transmission Provider, or into an independent escrow account 
established by the Upgrade Customer, the portion of the invoice in dispute, pending resolution of 
such dispute.  If the Upgrade Customer fails to meet any of these requirements, then 
Transmission Provider shall so inform the other Parties and Transmission Provider or the 
Transmission Owner may provide notice to Upgrade Customer of a Breach pursuant to section 
13 of this Appendix III.  Within 30 days after the resolution of the dispute, the party that owes 
money to the other party shall pay the amount due with interest calculated in accord with section 
9.6 (interest). 
 
9.5 Interest.   
 
Interest on any unpaid, delinquent amounts shall be calculated in accordance with the 
methodology specified for interest on refunds in the FERC’s regulations at 18 C.F.R. § 
35.19a(a)(2)(iii) and shall apply from the due date of the bill to the date of payment. 
 
9.6 No Waiver.   
 
Payment of an invoice shall not relieve Upgrade Customer from any other responsibilities or 
obligations it has under this Upgrade CSA, nor shall such payment constitute a waiver of any 
claims arising hereunder. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 10 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
10.0 Assignment 
 
10.1 Assignment with Prior Consent.   
 
Subject to section 10.2 of this Appendix III, no Party shall assign its rights or delegate its duties, 
or any part of such rights or duties, under this Upgrade CSA without the written consent of the 
other Parties, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.  Any 
such assignment or delegation made without such written consent shall be null and void.  In 
addition, the Transmission Owner shall be entitled, subject to Applicable Laws and Regulations, 
to assign this Upgrade CSA to any Affiliate or successor of the Transmission Owner that owns 
and operates all or a substantial portion of such Transmission Owner’s transmission facilities. 
 
10.2 Assignment Without Prior Consent. 
 
 10.2.1 Assignment by Upgrade Customer.   
 
Upgrade Customer may assign this Upgrade CSA without the Transmission Owner’s or 
Transmission Provider’s prior consent to any Affiliate or person that purchases or otherwise 
acquires, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all of the Upgrade Customer’s assets provided 
that, prior to the effective date of any such assignment, the assignee shall demonstrate that, as of 
the effective date of the assignment, the assignee has the technical competence and financial 
ability to comply with the requirements of this Upgrade CSA and assumes in a writing provided 
to the Transmission Owner and Transmission Provider all rights, duties, and obligations of 
Upgrade Customer arising under this Upgrade CSA.  However, any assignment described herein 
shall not relieve or discharge the Upgrade Customer from any of its obligations hereunder absent 
the written consent of the Transmission Owner, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, 
conditioned, or delayed. 
 
 10.2.2 Assignment by Transmission Owner.   
 
Transmission Owner shall be entitled, subject to applicable laws and regulations, to assign this 
Upgrade CSA to an Affiliate or successor that owns and operates all or a substantial portion of 
Transmission Owner’s transmission facilities. 
 
 10.2.3 Assignment to Lenders.   
 
Upgrade Customer may, without the consent of the Transmission Provider or the Transmission 
Owner, assign this Upgrade CSA to any Project Finance Entity(ies), provided that such 
assignment shall not alter or diminish Upgrade Customer’s duties and obligations under this 
Upgrade CSA.  If Upgrade Customer provides the Transmission Owner with notice of an 
assignment to any Project Finance Entity(ies) and identifies such Project Finance Entity(ies) as 
contacts for notice purposes pursuant to Article 6 of this Upgrade CSA, the Transmission 
Provider or Transmission Owner shall provide notice and reasonable opportunity for such 
entity(ies) to cure any Breach under this Upgrade CSA in accordance with this Upgrade CSA.  
Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner shall, if requested by such lenders, provide such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 10 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
customary and reasonable documents, including consents to assignment, as may be reasonably 
requested with respect to the assignment and status of this Upgrade CSA, provided that such 
documents do not alter or diminish the rights of the Transmission Provider or Transmission 
Owner under this Upgrade CSA, except with respect to providing notice of Breach to a Project 
Finance Entity.  Upon presentation of the Transmission Provider’s and/or the Transmission 
Owner’s invoice therefore, Upgrade Customer shall pay the Transmission Provider and/or the 
Transmission Owner’s reasonable documented cost of providing such documents and 
certificates.  Any assignment described herein shall not relieve or discharge the Upgrade 
Customer from any of its obligations hereunder absent the written consent of the Transmission 
Owner and Transmission Provider. 
 
10.3 Successors and Assigns.  
 
This Upgrade CSA and all of its provisions are binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the 
Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner and their respective successors and permitted 
assigns. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 11 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
11.0 Insurance 
 
11.1 Required Coverages.   
 
Constructing Entity shall maintain, at its own expense, insurance as described in paragraphs A 
through E below.  All insurance shall be procured from insurance companies rated “A-,” VII or 
better by AM Best and authorized to do business in a State or States in which the  Customer-
Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, will be located.  Failure to 
maintain required insurance shall be a Breach of this Upgrade CSA. 
 
 A. Workers Compensation Insurance with statutory limits, as required by the State 
and/or jurisdiction in which the work is to be performed, and employer’s liability insurance with 
limits of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000). 
 
 B. Commercial General Liability Insurance and/or Excess Liability Insurance 
covering liability arising out of premises, operations, personal injury, advertising,  products and 
completed operations coverage, independent contractors coverage, liability assumed under an 
insured contract, coverage for pollution to the extent normally available and punitive damages to 
the extent allowable under applicable law, with limits of not less than one million dollars 
($1,000,000) per occurrence/one million dollars ($1,000,000) general aggregate/one million 
dollars ($1,000,000) each accident products and completed operations aggregate. 
 
 C. Business/Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance for coverage of owned and 
non-owned and hired vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers designed for travel on public roads, with a 
minimum, combined single limit of no less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) each accident 
for bodily injury, including death, and property damage. 
 
 D. Excess and/or Umbrella Liability Insurance with a limit of liability of twenty 
million dollars ($20,000,000) per occurrence. These limits apply in excess of the employer’s 
liability, commercial general liability and business/commercial automobile liability coverages 
described above.  This requirement can be met alone or via a combination of primary, excess 
and/or umbrella insurance. 
 
 E. Professional Liability, including Contractors Legal Liability, providing errors, 
omissions and/or malpractice coverage.  Coverage shall be provided for the Constructing 
Entity’s duties, responsibilities and performance outlined in this Upgrade CSA, with limits of 
liability as follows: 
 
$10,000,000 each occurrence 
 
$10,000,000 aggregate 
 
An entity may meet the Professional Liability Insurance requirements by requiring third-party 
contractors, designers, or engineers, or other parties that are responsible for design and 
engineering work associated with the  Customer-Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 11 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
this Upgrade CSA, necessary for the transmission service to procure professional liability 
insurance in the amounts and upon the terms prescribed by this section, and providing evidence 
of such insurance to the other entity.  Such insurance shall be procured from companies rated 
“A-,” VII or better by AM Best and authorized to do business in a State or States in which the  
Customer-Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, are located.  Nothing 
in this section relieves the entity from complying with the insurance requirements.  In the event 
that the policies of the designers, engineers, or other parties used to satisfy the entity’s insurance 
obligations under this section become invalid for any reason, including but not limited to:  (i) the 
policy(ies) lapsing or otherwise terminating or expiring; (ii) the coverage limits of such 
policy(ies) are decreased; or (iii) the policy(ies) do not comply with the terms and conditions of 
the PJM Tariff; entity shall be required to procure insurance sufficient to meet the requirements 
of this section, such that there is no lapse in insurance coverage. Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
in the event an entity will not design, engineer or construct or cause to design, engineer or 
construct any new  Customer-Funded Upgrades, Transmission Provider, in its discretion, may 
waive the requirement that an entity maintain the Professional Liability Insurance pursuant to 
this section. 
 
11.2 Additional Insureds.  
 
The Commercial General Liability, Business/Commercial Automobile Liability and Excess 
and/or Umbrella Liability policies procured by each Constructing Entity (“Insuring Constructing 
Entity”) shall include each other party (the “Insured Party”), its officers, agents and employees as 
additional insureds, providing all standard coverages and covering liability of the Insured Party 
arising out of bodily injury and/or property damage (including loss of use) in any way connected 
with the operations, performance, or lack of performance under this Upgrade CSA. 
 
11.3 Other Required Terms.  
 
The above-mentioned insurance policies (except workers’ compensation) shall provide the 
following: 
 
 (a) Each policy shall contain provisions that specify that it is primary and non-
contributory for any liability arising out of that party’s negligence, and shall apply to such extent 
without consideration for other policies separately carried and shall state that each insured is 
provided coverage as though a separate policy had been issued to each, except the insurer’s 
liability shall not be increased beyond the amount for which the insurer would have been liable 
had only one insured been covered.  Each Insuring Constructing Entity shall be responsible for 
its respective deductibles or retentions. 
 
 (b) If any coverage is written on a Claims First Made Basis, continuous coverage 
shall be maintained or an extended discovery period will be exercised for a period of not less 
than two years after termination of this Upgrade CSA. 
 
 (c) Provide for a waiver of all rights of subrogation which the Insuring Constructing 
Entity’s insurance carrier might exercise against the Insured Party. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 11 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
 
11.4 No Limitation of Liability.   
 
The requirements contained herein as to the types and limits of all insurance to be maintained by 
the Constructing Entities are not intended to and shall not in any manner, limit or qualify the 
liabilities and obligations assumed by the Parties under this Upgrade CSA. 
 
11.5 Self-Insurance.   
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Constructing Entity may self-insure to meet the minimum 
insurance requirements of this section to the extent it maintains a self-insurance program; 
provided that such Constructing Entity’s senior secured debt is rated at investment grade or 
better by Standard & Poor’s and its self-insurance program meets the minimum insurance 
requirements of this section 11.  For any period of time that a Constructing Entity’s senior 
secured debt is unrated by Standard & Poor’s or is rated at less than investment grade by 
Standard & Poor’s, it shall comply with the insurance requirements applicable to it under this 
section 11.  In the event that a Constructing Entity is permitted to self-insure pursuant to this 
section, it shall notify the other Parties that it meets the requirements to self-insure and that its 
self-insurance program meets the minimum insurance requirements in a manner consistent with 
that specified in section 11.6 of this Appendix III. 
 
11.6 Notices; Certificates of Insurance.   
 
Prior to the commencement of work pursuant to this Upgrade CSA, the Constructing Entities 
agree to furnish certificate(s) of insurance evidencing the insurance coverage obtained in 
accordance with section 11 of this Appendix III.  All certificates of insurance shall indicate that 
the certificate holder is included as an additional insured under the Commercial General 
Liability, Business/Commercial Automobile Liability and Excess and/or Umbrella Liability 
coverages, and that this insurance is primary with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the other 
Interconnected Entities.  All policies of insurance shall provide for 30 days prior written notice 
of cancellation or material adverse change.  If the policies of insurance do not or cannot be 
endorsed to provide 30 days prior written notice of cancellation or material adverse change, each 
Constructing Entity shall provide the other Constructing Entities with 30 days prior written 
notice of cancellation or material adverse change to any of the insurance required in this Upgrade 
CSA. 
 
11.7 Subcontractor Insurance.   
 
In accord with Good Utility Practice, each Constructing Entity shall require each of its 
subcontractors to maintain and provide evidence of insurance coverage of types, and in amounts, 
commensurate with the risks associated with the services provided by the subcontractor.  
Bonding of contractors or subcontractors shall be at the hiring Constructing Entity’s discretion, 
but regardless of bonding, the Transmission Owner shall be responsible for the performance or 
non-performance of any contractor or subcontractor it hires. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 11 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 4 
11.8 Reporting Incidents.   
 
The Parties shall report to each other in writing as soon as practical all accidents or occurrences 
resulting in injuries to any person, including death, and any property damage arising out of this 
Upgrade CSA. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 12 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
12.0 Indemnity 
 
12.1 Indemnity.   
 
Each Constructing Entity shall indemnify and hold harmless the other Parties, and the other 
Parties’ officers, shareholders, stakeholders, members, managers, representatives, directors, 
agents and employees, and Affiliates, from and against any and all loss, liability, damage, cost or 
expense to third parties, including damage and liability for bodily injury to or death of persons, 
or damage to property of persons (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses, litigation 
costs, consultant fees, investigation fees, sums paid in settlements of claims, penalties or fines 
imposed under Applicable Laws and Regulations, and any such fees and expenses incurred in 
enforcing this indemnity or collecting any sums due hereunder) (collectively, “Loss”) to the 
extent arising out of, in connection with or resulting from:  (i) the indemnifying Constructing 
Entity’s breach of any of the representations or warranties made in, or failure of the 
indemnifying Constructing Entity or any of its subcontractors to perform any of its obligations 
under, this Upgrade CSA; or (ii) the negligence or willful misconduct of the indemnifying 
Constructing Entity or its contractors; provided, however, that the neither Constructing Entity 
shall not have any indemnification obligations under this section in respect of any Loss to the 
extent the Loss results from the negligence or willful misconduct of the Party seeking indemnity. 
 
12.2 Indemnity Procedures.   
 
Promptly after receipt by a person entitled to indemnity (“Indemnified Person”) of any claim or 
notice of the commencement of any action or administrative or legal proceeding or investigation 
as to which the indemnity provided for in this section 12 may apply, the Indemnified Person 
shall notify the indemnifying Constructing Entity of such fact.  Any failure of or delay in such 
notification shall not affect a Constructing Entity’s indemnification obligation unless such failure 
or delay is materially prejudicial to the indemnifying Constructing Entity.  The Indemnified 
Person shall cooperate with the indemnifying Constructing Entity with respect to the matter for 
which indemnification is claimed.  The indemnifying Constructing Entity shall have the right to 
assume the defense thereof with counsel designated by such indemnifying Constructing Entity 
and reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person.  If the defendants in any such action 
include one or more Indemnified Persons and the indemnifying Constructing Entity and if the 
Indemnified Person reasonably concludes that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or 
other Indemnified Persons which are different from or additional to those available to the 
indemnifying Constructing Entity, the Indemnified Person shall have the right to select separate 
counsel to assert such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on 
its own behalf.  In such instances, the indemnifying Constructing Entity shall only be required to 
pay the fees and expenses of one additional attorney to represent an Indemnified Person or 
Indemnified Persons having such differing or additional legal defenses.  The Indemnified Person 
shall be entitled, at its expense, to participate in any action, suit or proceeding, the defense of 
which has been assumed by the indemnifying Constructing Entity.  Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, the indemnifying Constructing Entity shall not:  (i) be entitled to assume and control 
the defense of any such action, suit or proceedings if and to the extent that, in the opinion of the 
Indemnified Person and its counsel, such action, suit or proceeding involves the potential 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 12 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
imposition of criminal liability on the Indemnified Person, or there exists a conflict or adversity 
of interest between the Indemnified Person and the indemnifying Constructing Entity, in such 
event the indemnifying Constructing Entity shall pay the reasonable expenses of the Indemnified 
Person; and (ii) settle or consent to the entry of any judgment in any action, suit or proceeding 
without the consent of the Indemnified Person, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, 
conditioned or delayed. 
 
12.3 Indemnified Person.   
 
If an Indemnified Person is entitled to indemnification under this section 12 as a result of a claim 
by a third party, and the indemnifying Constructing Entity fails, after notice and reasonable 
opportunity to proceed under this section 12, to assume the defense of such claim, such 
Indemnified Person may at the expense of the indemnifying Constructing Entity contest, settle or 
consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, or pay in full, such claim. 
 
12.4 Amount Owing.   
 
If the indemnifying Constructing Entity is obligated to indemnify and hold any Indemnified 
Person harmless under this section 12, the amount owing to the Indemnified Person shall be the 
amount of such Indemnified Person’s actual Loss, net of any insurance or other recovery. 
 
12.5 Limitation on Damages.   
 
Except as otherwise provided in this section 12, the liability of a Party shall be limited to direct 
actual damages, and all other damages at law are waived.  Under no circumstances shall any 
Party or its Affiliates, directors, officers, employees and agents, or any of them, be liable to 
another Party, whether in tort, contract or other basis in law or equity for any special, indirect, 
punitive, exemplary or consequential damages, including lost profits.  The limitations on 
damages specified in this section 12.5 are without regard to the cause or causes related thereto, 
including the negligence of any Party, whether such negligence be sole, joint or concurrent, or 
active or passive.  This limitation on damages shall not affect any Party’s rights to obtain 
equitable relief as otherwise provided in this Upgrade CSA.  The provisions of this section 12 
shall survive the termination or expiration of this Upgrade CSA. 
 
12.6 Limitation of Liability in Event of Breach.   
 
A Breaching Party shall have no liability hereunder to any other Party, and each other Party 
hereby releases the Breaching Party, for all claims or damages it incurs that are associated with 
any interruption in the availability of the  Customer-Funded Upgrades identified in Appendix I to 
this Upgrade CSA, the Transmission System, or Transmission Service, or associated with 
damage to the  Customer-Funded Upgrades identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, 
except to the extent such interruption or damage is caused by the Breaching Party’s gross 
negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of its obligations under this Upgrade CSA. 
 
12.7 Limited Liability in Emergency Conditions.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 12 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the PJM Tariff or the Operating Agreement, no Party shall be 
liable to any other Party for any action that it takes in responding to an Emergency Condition, so 
long as such action is made in good faith, is consistent with Good Utility Practice and is not 
contrary to the directives of the Transmission Provider or the Transmission Owner with respect 
to such Emergency Condition.  Notwithstanding the above, Upgrade Customer shall be liable in 
the event that it fails to comply with any instructions of Transmission Provider or the 
Transmission Owner related to an Emergency Condition. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 13 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
13.0 Breach, Cure and Default 
 
13.1 Breach.   
 
A Breach of this Upgrade CSA shall include: 
 
 (a) The failure to pay any amount when due; 
 
 (b) The failure to comply with any material term or condition of this Upgrade CSA 
including but not limited to any material breach of a representation, warranty or covenant made 
in this Upgrade CSA; 
 
 (c) Assignment of this Upgrade CSA in a manner inconsistent with the terms of this 
Upgrade CSA; or 
 
 (d) Failure of any Party to provide information or data required to be provided to 
another Party under this Upgrade CSA for such other Party to satisfy its obligations under this 
Upgrade CSA. 
 
13.2 Notice of Breach.   
 
In the event of a Breach, a Party not in Breach of this Upgrade CSA shall give written notice of 
such Breach to the Breaching Party, the other Party and to any other persons that the Breaching 
Party identifies in writing prior to the Breach.  Such notice shall set forth, in reasonable detail, 
the nature of the Breach, and where known and applicable, the steps necessary to cure such 
Breach.  In the event of a Breach by Upgrade Customer, Transmission Provider or the 
Transmission Owner agree to provide notice of such Breach, in the same manner as its or their 
notice to Upgrade Customer, to any Project Finance Entity, provided that the Upgrade Customer 
has provided Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner with notice of an assignment 
to such Project Finance Entity(ies) and has identified such Project Finance Entities as contacts 
for notice. 
 
13.3 Cure and Default.   
 
A Party that commits a Breach and does not take steps to cure the Breach pursuant to this section 
is automatically in Default of this Upgrade CSA, and its Upgrade Request and this Agreement 
shall be deemed terminated and withdrawn.  Transmission Provider shall take all necessary steps 
to effectuate this termination, including submitted the necessary filings with FERC. 
 
 13.3.1 Cure of Breach.  
 
  13.3.1.1  
Except for the event of Breach set forth in section 13.1(a) above, the Breaching Interconnection 
Party (a) may cure the Breach within 30 days of the time the Non-Breaching Party sends such 
notice; or (b) if the Breach cannot be cured within 30 days, may commence in good faith all 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 13 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
steps that are reasonable and appropriate to cure the Breach within such 30 day time period and 
thereafter diligently pursue such action to completion pursuant to a plan to cure, which shall be 
developed and agreed to in writing by the Interconnection Parties.  Such agreement shall not be 
unreasonably withheld.   
 
  13.3.1.2  
 
In an event of Breach set forth in section 13.1(a), the Breaching Interconnection Party shall cure 
the Breach within five days from the receipt of notice of the Breach.  If the Breaching 
Interconnection Party is the Upgrade Customer, and the Upgrade Customer fails to pay an 
amount due within five days from the receipt of notice of the Breach, Transmission Provider may 
use Security to cure such Breach.  If Transmission Provider uses Security to cure such Breach, 
Upgrade Customer shall be in automatic Default and its project and this Agreement shall be 
deemed terminated and withdrawn. 
 
13.4 Right to Compel Performance.   
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the occurrence of a Default, a non-Defaulting 
Interconnection Party shall be entitled to exercise such other rights and remedies as it may have 
in equity or at law.  Subject to section 9.5, no remedy conferred by any provision of this Upgrade 
CSA is intended to be exclusive of any other remedy and each and every remedy shall be 
cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter 
existing at law or in equity or by statute or otherwise.  The election of any one or more remedies 
shall not constitute a waiver of the right to pursue other available remedies. 
 
13.5 Remedies Cumulative.   
 
No remedy conferred by any provision of this Upgrade CSA is intended to be exclusive of any 
other remedy and each and every remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every 
other remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute or 
otherwise.  The election of any one or more remedies shall not constitute a waiver of the right to 
pursue other available remedies. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 14 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
14.0 Termination 
 
14.1 Termination. 
 
 14.1.1 Upon Completion of Construction.   
 
  14.1.1.1  Conforming Upgrade CSAs. 
 
If this Upgrade CSA is conforming and, therefore, is only reported to FERC on PJM’s Electric 
Quarterly Report, it shall terminate upon the date Transmission Provider receives written notice, 
in a form acceptable to the Transmission Provider from the Transmission Owner that the 
following conditions have occurred:  (i) completion of construction of all Customer-Funded 
Upgrades identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA; (ii) final payment of all Costs due and 
owing under this Upgrade CSA; and (iii) termination of all rights provided under this Upgrade 
CSA. 
 
  14.1.1.2  Non-Conforming Upgrade CSAs. 
 
If this Upgrade CSA is non-conforming and, therefore, has been filed with and accepted by 
FERC, it shall terminate upon (a) Transmission Provider receiving written notice, in a form 
acceptable to Transmission Provider, from Transmission Owner that the following conditions 
have occurred: (i) completion of construction of Customer-Funded Upgrades identified in 
Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA;; (ii) final payment of all Costs due and owing under this 
Upgrade CSA; (iii) termination of all rights provided under this Upgrade CSA; and (b) the 
effective date of Transmission Provider’s cancellation of the Upgrade CSA in accordance with 
Commission rules and regulations. Transmission Provider shall serve the Transmission Owner 
and Upgrade Customer with a copy of the notice of cancellation of any Upgrade CSA in 
accordance with Commission rules and regulations. 
 
14.2 Cancellation by Upgrade Customer. 
 
 14.2.1 Applicability.   
 
The following provisions shall apply in the event that Upgrade Customer terminates this 
Upgrade CSA: 
 
 14.2.2 Cancellation Cost Responsibility.   
 
Upon the cancellation of this Upgrade CSA by the Upgrade Customer, the Upgrade Customer 
shall be liable to pay to the Transmission Owner or Transmission Provider all Cancellation Costs 
in connection with the Upgrade CSA.  Cancellation costs may include costs for Network 
Upgrades assigned to Upgrade Customer, in accordance with the Tariff and as reflected in this 
Upgrade CSA, that remain the responsibility of Upgrade Customer under the Tariff.  This shall 
include costs including, but not limited to, the costs for such Network Upgrades to the extent 
such cancellation would be a Material Modification, or would have an adverse effect or impose 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 14 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
costs on other Upgrade Customers in the Cycle.  In the event the Transmission Owner incurs 
Cancellation Costs, it shall provide the Transmission Provider, with a copy to the Upgrade 
Customer, with a written demand for payment and with reasonable documentation of such 
Cancellation Costs.  The Upgrade Customer shall pay the Transmission Provider each bill for 
Cancellation Costs within 30 days after, as applicable, the Transmission Owner’s or 
Transmission Provider’s presentation to the Upgrade Customer of written demand therefor, 
provided that such demand includes reasonable documentation of the Cancellation Costs that the 
invoicing party seeks to collect. Upon receipt of each of Upgrade Customer’s payments of such 
bills of the Transmission Owner, Transmission Provider shall reimburse the Transmission Owner 
for Cancellation Costs incurred by the latter. 
 
 14.2.3 Disposition of Customer-Funded Upgrades upon Cancellation.   
 
Upon cancellation of this Upgrade CSA by the Upgrade Customer, Transmission Provider, after 
consulting with the Transmission Owner, may, at the sole cost and expense of the Upgrade 
Customer, authorize the Transmission Owner to:  (a) cancel supplier and contractor orders and 
agreements entered into by the Transmission Owner to design, engineer, construct, install, 
operate, maintain and own Customer-Funded Upgrades identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade 
CSA, provided, however, that Upgrade Customer shall have the right to choose to take delivery 
of any equipment ordered by the Transmission Owner for which Transmission Provider 
otherwise would authorize cancellation of the purchase order; (b) remove any Customer-Funded 
Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this Upgrade CSA, built by the Transmission Owner; (c) 
partially or entirely complete the Customer-Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this 
Upgrade CSA, as necessary to preserve the integrity or reliability of the Transmission System, 
provided that Upgrade Customer shall be entitled to receive any rights associated with such 
Customer-Funded Upgrades as determined in accordance with the PJM Tariff; or (d) undo any of 
the changes to the Transmission System that were made pursuant to this Upgrade CSA.  To the 
extent that the Upgrade Customer has fully paid for equipment that is unused upon cancellation 
or which is removed pursuant to this section, the Upgrade Customer shall have the right to take 
back title to such equipment; alternatively, in the event that the Upgrade Customer does not wish 
to take back title, the Transmission Owner may elect to pay the Upgrade Customer a mutually 
agreed amount to acquire and own such equipment. 
 
 14.2.4 Termination upon Default.   
 
In the event that Upgrade Customer exercises its right to terminate under this section 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Upgrade CSA, the Upgrade Customer shall be liable 
for payment of the Transmission Owner’s Costs incurred up to the date of Upgrade Customer’s 
notice of termination pursuant to this section and the costs of completion of some or all of the 
Customer-Funded Upgrades, or specific unfinished portions thereof, and/or removal of any or all 
of such Customer-Funded Upgrades that have been installed, to the extent that Transmission 
Provider determines such completion or removal to be required for the Transmission Provider 
and/or the Transmission Owner to perform their respective obligations under the PJM Tariff, 
provided, however, that Upgrade Customer’s payment of such costs shall be without prejudice to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 14 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
any remedies that otherwise may be available to it under this Upgrade CSA for the Default of the 
Transmission Owner. 
 
14.3 Survival of Rights.   
 
The obligations of the Parties hereunder with respect to payments, Cancellation Costs, 
warranties, liability and indemnification shall survive termination to the extent necessary to 
provide for the determination and enforcement of said obligations arising from acts or events that 
occurred while this Upgrade CSA was in effect.  In addition, applicable provisions of this 
Upgrade CSA will continue in effect after expiration, cancellation or termination to the extent 
necessary to provide for final billings, payments, and billing adjustments. 
 
14.4 Filing at FERC.   
 
The Transmission Provider shall make a filing with FERC pursuant to section 205 of the Federal 
Power Act effectuating the termination of this Upgrade CSA as required. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 15 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
15.0 Force Majeure 
 
15.1 Notice.   
 
A Party that is unable to carry out an obligation imposed on it by this Upgrade CSA due to Force 
Majeure shall notify the other Parties in writing or by telephone within a reasonable time after 
the occurrence of the cause relied on. 
 
15.2 Duration of Force Majeure.   
 
A Party shall not be responsible for any non-performance or considered in Breach or Default 
under this Upgrade CSA, for any non-performance, any interruption or failure of service, 
deficiency in the quality or quantity of service, or any other failure to perform any obligation 
hereunder to the extent that such failure or deficiency is due to Force Majeure.  A Party shall be 
excused from whatever performance is affected only for the duration of the Force Majeure and 
while the Party exercises Reasonable Efforts to alleviate such situation.  As soon as the non-
performing Party is able to resume performance of its obligations excused because of the 
occurrence of Force Majeure, such Party shall resume performance and give prompt notice 
thereof to the other Party. 
 
15.3 Obligation to Make Payments.   
 
Any Party’s obligation to make payments for services shall not be suspended by Force Majeure. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 16 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
16.0 Confidentiality  
 
Information is Confidential Information only if it is clearly designated or marked in writing as 
confidential on the face of the document, or, if the information is conveyed orally or by 
inspection, if the Party providing the information orally informs the other Party receiving the 
information that the information is confidential.  If requested by any Party, the disclosing Party 
shall provide in writing the basis for asserting that the information referred to in this section 
warrants confidential treatment, and the requesting Party may disclose such writing to an 
appropriate Governmental Authority.  Any Party shall be responsible for the costs associated 
with affording confidential treatment to its information. 
 
16.1 Term.   
 
During the term of this Upgrade CSA, and for a period of three years after the termination of this 
Upgrade CSA, except as otherwise provided in section 16 of this Upgrade CSA, each Party shall 
hold in confidence, and shall not disclose to any person, Confidential Information provided to it 
by any Party. 
 
16.2 Scope.   
 
Confidential Information shall not include information that the receiving Party can demonstrate:  
(i) is generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure by the receiving Party; 
(ii) was in the lawful possession of the receiving Party on a non-confidential basis before 
receiving it from the disclosing Party; (iii) was supplied to the receiving Party without restriction 
by a third party, who, to the knowledge of the receiving Party, after due inquiry, was under no 
obligation to the disclosing Party to keep such information confidential; (iv) was independently 
developed by the receiving Party without reference to Confidential Information of the disclosing 
Party; (v) is, or becomes, publicly known, through no wrongful act or omission of the receiving 
Party or breach of this Upgrade CSA; or (vi) is required, in accordance with section 16.7 of this 
Appendix III, to be disclosed to any Governmental Authority or is otherwise required to be 
disclosed by law or subpoena, or is necessary in any legal proceeding establishing rights and 
obligations under this Upgrade CSA.  Information designated as Confidential Information shall 
no longer be deemed confidential if the Party that designated the information as confidential 
notifies the other Parties that it no longer is confidential. 
 
16.3 Release of Confidential Information.   
 
No Party shall disclose Confidential Information of another Party to any other person, except to 
its Affiliates (in accordance with FERC’s Standards of Conduct requirements), subcontractors, 
employees, consultants or to parties who may be or considering providing financing to or equity 
participation in Upgrade Customer on a need-to-know basis in connection with this Upgrade 
CSA, unless such person has first been advised of the confidentiality provisions of this section 
and has agreed to comply with such provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Party that 
provides Confidential Information of another Party to any person shall remain responsible for 
any release of Confidential Information in contravention of this section. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 16 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
 
16.4 Rights.   
 
Each Party retains all rights, title, and interest in the Confidential Information that it discloses to 
any other Party.  A Party’s disclosure to another Party of Confidential Information shall not be 
deemed a waiver by any Party or any other person or entity of the right to protect the 
Confidential Information from public disclosure. 
 
16.5 No Warranties.   
 
By providing Confidential Information, no Party makes any warranties or representations as to 
its accuracy or completeness.  In addition, by supplying Confidential Information, no Party 
obligates itself to provide any particular information or Confidential Information to any other 
Party nor to enter into any further agreements or proceed with any other relationship or joint 
venture. 
 
16.6 Standard of Care.   
 
Each Party shall use at least the same standard of care to protect Confidential Information it 
receives as the Party uses to protect its own Confidential Information from unauthorized 
disclosure, publication or dissemination.  Each Party may use Confidential Information solely to 
fulfill its obligations to the other Parties under this Upgrade CSA or to comply with Applicable 
Laws and Regulations. 
 
16.7 Order of Disclosure.   
 
If a Governmental Authority with the right, power, and apparent authority to do so requests or 
requires a Party, by subpoena, oral deposition, interrogatories, requests for production of 
documents, administrative order, or otherwise, to disclose Confidential Information, that Party 
shall provide the Party that provided the information with prompt prior notice of such request(s) 
or requirement(s) so that the providing Party may seek an appropriate protective order, or waive 
compliance with the terms of this Upgrade CSA.  Notwithstanding the absence of a protective 
order, or agreement, or waiver, the Party subjected to the request or order may disclose such 
Confidential Information which, in the opinion of its counsel, the Party is legally compelled to 
disclose.  Each Party shall use Reasonable Efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential 
treatment will be accorded any Confidential Information so furnished. 
 
16.8 Termination of Upgrade Construction Service Agreement.   
 
Upon termination of this Upgrade CSA for any reason, each Party shall, within 10 calendar days 
of receipt of a written request from another Party, use Reasonable Efforts to destroy, erase, or 
delete (with such destruction, erasure and deletion certified in writing to the requesting Party) or 
to return to the requesting Party, without retaining copies thereof, any and all written or 
electronic Confidential Information received from the requesting Party. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 16 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
16.9 Remedies.   
 
The Parties agree that monetary damages would be inadequate to compensate a Party for another 
Party’s Breach of its obligations under this section 16.  Each Party accordingly agrees that the 
other Party shall be entitled to equitable relief, by way of injunction or otherwise, if the first 
Party breaches or threatens to breach its obligations under this section, which equitable relief 
shall be granted without bond or proof of damages, and the receiving Party shall not plead in 
defense that there would be an adequate remedy at law.  Such remedy shall not be deemed to be 
an exclusive remedy for the breach of this section, but shall be in addition to all other remedies 
available at law or in equity.  The Parties further acknowledge and agree that the covenants 
contained herein are necessary for the protection of legitimate business interests and are 
reasonable in scope.  No Party, however, shall be liable for indirect, incidental, consequential, or 
punitive damages of any nature or kind resulting from or arising in connection with a Breach of 
any obligation under this section 16. 
 
16.10 Disclosure to FERC or its Staff.   
 
Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, and pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 1b.20, if 
FERC or its staff, during the course of an investigation or otherwise, requests information from 
one of the Parties that is otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to this 
Upgrade CSA, the Party, shall provide the requested information to FERC or its staff, within the 
time provided for in the request for information.  In providing the information to FERC or its 
staff, the Party must, consistent with 18 C.F.R. § 388.112, request that the information be treated 
as confidential and non-public by FERC and its staff and that the information be withheld from 
public disclosure.  Parties are prohibited from notifying the other Parties to this Upgrade CSA 
prior to the release of the Confidential Information to FERC or its staff.  A Party shall notify the 
other Parties when it is notified by FERC or its staff that a request to release Confidential 
Information has been received by FERC, at which time any of the Parties may respond before 
such information would be made public, pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 388.112. 
 
16.11 Non-Disclosure. 
 
Subject to the exception noted above in section 16.10 of this Appendix III, no Party shall 
disclose Confidential Information of Party to any person not employed or retained by the 
disclosing Party, except to the extent disclosure is:  (i) required by law; (ii) reasonably deemed 
by the disclosing Party to be required in connection with a dispute between or among the Parties, 
or the defense of litigation or dispute; (iii) otherwise permitted by consent of the Party that 
provided such Confidential Information, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld; or (iv) 
necessary to fulfill its obligations under this Upgrade CSA or as a transmission service provider 
or a Control Area operator including disclosing the Confidential Information to an RTO or ISO 
or to a regional or national reliability organization.  Prior to any disclosures of another Party’s 
Confidential Information under this subparagraph, the disclosing Party shall promptly notify the 
other Parties in writing and shall assert confidentiality and cooperate with the other Parties in 
seeking to protect the Confidential Information from public disclosure by confidentiality 
agreement, protective order or other reasonable measures. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 16 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 4 
 
16.12 Information in the Public Domain. 
 
This provision shall not apply to any information that was or is hereafter in the public domain 
(except as a result of a Breach of this provision). 
 
16.13 Return or Destruction of Confidential Information.   
 
If any Party provides any Confidential Information to another Party in the course of an audit or 
inspection, the providing Party may request the other Party to return or destroy such Confidential 
Information after the termination of the audit period and the resolution of all matters relating to 
that audit.  Each Party shall make Reasonable Efforts to comply with any such requests for return 
or destruction within 10 days after receiving the request and shall certify in writing to the 
requesting Party that it has complied with such request. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 17 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
17.0 Information Access and Audit Rights 
 
17.1 Information Access.   
 
Subject to Applicable Laws and Regulations, each Party shall make available to the other Parties 
information necessary:  (i) to verify the Costs incurred by the other Party for which the 
requesting Party is responsible under this Upgrade CSA and the PJM Tariff; and (ii) to carry out 
obligations and responsibilities under this Upgrade CSA and the PJM Tariff.  The Parties shall 
not use such information for purposes other than those set forth in this section 17 and to enforce 
their rights under this Upgrade CSA and the PJM Tariff. 
 
17.2 Reporting of Non-Force Majeure Events.   
 
Each Party shall notify the other Parties when it becomes aware of its inability to comply with 
the provisions of this Upgrade CSA for a reason other than an event of force majeure as defined 
in section 1.21 of Appendix 2 of this Attachment GG.  The Parties agree to cooperate with each 
other and provide necessary information regarding such inability to comply, including, but not 
limited to, the date, duration, reason for the inability to comply, and corrective actions taken or 
planned to be taken with respect to such inability to comply.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
notification, cooperation or information provided under this section 17 shall not entitle the 
receiving Party to allege a cause of action for anticipatory breach of this Upgrade CSA and the 
PJM Tariff. 
 
17.3 Audit Rights.   
 
Subject to the requirements of confidentiality of this Upgrade CSA and the PJM Tariff, each 
Party shall have the right, during normal business hours, and upon prior reasonable notice to the 
pertinent Party, to audit at its own expense the other Party’s accounts and records pertaining to 
such Party’s performance and/or satisfaction of obligations arising under this Upgrade CSA and 
the PJM Tariff.  Any audit authorized by this section 17 shall be performed at the offices where 
such accounts and records are maintained and shall be limited to those portions of such accounts 
and records that relate to obligations under this Upgrade CSA.  Any request for audit shall be 
presented to the other Party not later than 24 months after the event as to which the audit is 
sought.  Each Party shall preserve all records held by it for the duration of the audit period. 
 
17.4 Waiver.   
 
Any waiver at any time by any Party of its rights with respect to a Breach or Default under this 
Upgrade CSA, or with respect to any other matters arising in connection with this Upgrade CSA, 
shall not be deemed a waiver or continuing waiver with respect to any other Breach or Default or 
other matter. 
 
17.5 Amendments and Rights Under the Federal Power Act.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 17 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
Except as set forth in this section 17, this Upgrade CSA may be amended, modified, or 
supplemented only by written agreement of the Parties.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing 
contained in this Upgrade CSA shall be construed as affecting in any way any of the rights of 
any Party with respect to changes in applicable rates or charges under section 205 of the Federal 
Power Act and/or FERC’s rules and regulations thereunder, or any of the rights of any Party 
under section 206 of the Federal Power Act and/or FERC’s rules and regulations thereunder.  
The terms and conditions of this Upgrade CSA shall be amended, as mutually agreed by the 
Parties, to comply with changes or alterations made necessary by a valid applicable order of any 
Governmental Authority having jurisdiction hereof. 
 
17.6 Regulatory Requirements.   
 
Each Party’s performance of any obligation under this Upgrade CSA for which such Party 
requires approval or authorization of any Governmental Authority shall be subject to its receipt 
of such required approval or authorization in the form and substance satisfactory to the receiving 
Party, or the Party making any required filings with, or providing notice to, such Governmental 
Authorities, and the expiration of any time period associated therewith.  Each Party shall in good 
faith seek, and shall use Reasonable Efforts to obtain, such required authorizations or approvals 
as soon as reasonably practicable. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 18 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
18.0 Representations and Warranties 
 
18.1 General.   
 
Each Constructing Entity hereby represents, warrants and covenants as follows, with these 
representations, warranties, and covenants effective as to the Constructing Entity during the full 
time this Upgrade CSA is effective: 
 
 18.1.1 Good Standing.   
 
Such Constructing Entity is duly organized or formed, as applicable, validly existing and in good 
standing under the laws of its State of organization or formation, and is in good standing under 
the laws of the respective State(s) in which it is incorporated. 
 
 18.1.2 Authority.   
 
Such Constructing Entity has the right, power and authority to enter into this Upgrade CSA, to 
become a Party thereto and to perform its obligations thereunder.  This Upgrade CSA is a legal, 
valid and binding obligation of such Constructing Entity, enforceable against such Constructing 
Entity in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by 
applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws affecting creditors’ rights 
generally and by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforceability is sought in a 
proceeding in equity or at law). 
 
 18.1.3 No Conflict.   
 
The execution, delivery and performance of this Upgrade CSA does not violate or conflict with 
the organizational or formation documents, or bylaws or operating agreement, of such 
Constructing Entity, or any judgment, license, permit, order, material agreement or instrument 
applicable to or binding upon such Constructing Entity or any of its assets. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT IX. FORMS OF INTERCONNECTION-RELATED AGREEMENTS --> OATT Part IX Subpart E FORM OF 
UPGRADE CONSTRUCTION SERVICE --> OATT Part IX.E UCSA Appendix 3 General Terms and Conditions --> OATT Part IX.E 
UCSA Appx 3 Section 19 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
19.0 Inspection and Testing of Completed Facilities 
 
19.1 Coordination.   
 
Upgrade Customer and the Transmission Owner shall coordinate the timing and schedule of all 
inspection and testing of the Customer-Funded Upgrades, identified in Appendix I to this 
Upgrade CSA. 
 
19.2 Inspection and Testing.   
 
Each Constructing Entity shall cause inspection and testing of any Customer-Funded Upgrades 
that it constructs in accordance with the provisions of this section. The Parties acknowledge and 
agree that inspection and testing of facilities may be undertaken as facilities are completed and 
need not await completion of all of the facilities that a Constructing Entity is building.  
 
Upon the completion of the construction and installation, but prior to energization, of any 
Customer-Funded Upgrades constructed by the Transmission Owner, the Transmission Owner 
shall have the same inspected and/or tested by qualified personnel or a qualified contractor to 
assess whether the facilities substantially comply with Applicable Standards.  Subject to 