[SCHEDULE 7 - Part 1 of 3]

Schedule 7. 
 
Breach: 
 
“Breach” shall mean the failure of a party to perform or observe any material term or condition 
of Tariff, Part IV or Tariff, Part VI, or any agreement entered into thereunder as described in the 
relevant provisions of such agreement. 
 
Breaching Party: 
 
“Breaching Party” shall mean a party that is in Breach of Tariff, Part IV or Tariff, Part VI and/or 
an agreement entered into thereunder. 
 
Business Day: 
 
“Business Day” shall mean a day in which the Federal Reserve System is open for business and 
is not a scheduled PJM holiday. 
 
Buy Bid: 
 
“Buy Bid” shall mean a bid to buy Capacity Resources in any Incremental Auction. 
 
Buyer-Side Market Power: 
 
“Buyer-Side Market Power” shall mean the ability of Capacity Market Sellers with a Load 
Interest to suppress RPM Auction clearing prices for the overall benefit of their (and/or affiliates) 
portfolio of generation and load. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 1 
Definitions – C - D 
 
Canadian Guaranty: 
 
“Canadian Guaranty” shall mean a Corporate Guaranty provided by an Affiliate of a Participant 
that is domiciled in Canada, and meets all of the provisions of Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Cancellation Costs: 
 
“Cancellation Costs” shall mean costs and liabilities incurred in connection with: (a) cancellation 
of supplier and contractor written orders and agreements entered into to design, construct and 
install Attachment Facilities, Direct Assignment Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades, 
and/or (b) completion of some or all of the required Attachment Facilities, Direct Assignment 
Facilities and/or Customer-Funded Upgrades, or specific unfinished portions and/or removal of 
any or all of such facilities which have been installed, to the extent required for the Transmission 
Provider and/or Transmission Owner(s) to perform their respective obligations under Tariff, Part 
IV and/or Tariff, Part VI. 
 
Capacity: 
 
“Capacity” shall mean the installed capacity requirement of the Reliability Assurance Agreement 
or similar such requirements as may be established. 
 
Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit: 
 
“Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit” or “CETL” shall have the meaning provided in the 
Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective: 
 
“Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective” or “CETO” shall have the meaning provided in the 
Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Capacity Export Transmission Customer: 
 
“Capacity Export Transmission Customer” shall mean a customer taking point to point 
transmission service under Tariff, Part II to export capacity from a generation resource located in 
the PJM Region that has qualified for an exception to the RPM must-offer requirement as 
described in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6(g). 
 
Capacity Import Limit: 
 
“Capacity Import Limit” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Capacity Interconnection Rights: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 2 
 
“Capacity Interconnection Rights” shall mean the rights to input generation as a Generation 
Capacity Resource into the Transmission System at the Point of Interconnection where the 
generating facilities connect to the Transmission System. 
 
Capacity Market Buyer: 
 
“Capacity Market Buyer” shall mean a Member that submits bids to buy Capacity Resources in 
any Incremental Auction.   
 
Capacity Market Seller: 
 
“Capacity Market Seller” shall mean a Member that owns, or has the contractual authority to 
control the output or load reduction capability of, a Capacity Resource, that has not transferred 
such authority to another entity, and that offers such resource in the Base Residual Auction or an 
Incremental Auction. 
 
Capacity Performance Resource: 
 
“Capacity Performance Resource” shall mean a Capacity Resource as described in Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.5A(a). 
 
Capacity Performance Transition Incremental Auction: 
 
“Capacity Performance Transition Incremental Auction” shall have the meaning specified in 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14D. 
 
Capacity Resource: 
 
“Capacity Resource” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Capacity Resource with State Subsidy:  
 
“Capacity Resource with State Subsidy” shall mean (1) a Capacity Resource that is offered into 
an RPM Auction or otherwise assumes an RPM commitment for which the Capacity Market 
Seller receives or is entitled to receive one or more State Subsidies for the applicable Delivery 
Year; (2) a Capacity Resource that has not cleared an RPM Auction for the Delivery Year for 
which the Capacity Market Seller last received a State Subsidy (or any subsequent Delivery 
Year) shall still be considered a Capacity Resource with State Subsidy upon the expiration of 
such State Subsidy until the resource clears an RPM Auction; (3) a Capacity Resource that is the 
subject of a bilateral transaction (including but not limited to those reported pursuant to Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 4.6) shall be deemed a Capacity Resource with State Subsidy to the 
extent an owner of the facility supporting the Capacity Resource is entitled to a State Subsidy 
associated with such facility even if the Capacity Market Seller is not entitled to a State Subsidy; 
and (4) any Jointly Owned Cross-Subsidized Capacity Resource.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 3 
Capacity Resource Clearing Price: 
 
“Capacity Resource Clearing Price” shall mean the price calculated for a Capacity Resource that 
offered and cleared in a Base Residual Auction or Incremental Auction, in accordance with 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.  
 
Capacity Storage Resource: 
 
“Capacity Storage Resource” shall mean any Energy Storage Resource that participates in the 
Reliability Pricing Model or is otherwise treated as capacity in PJM’s markets such as through a 
Fixed Resource Requirement Capacity Plan. 
 
Capacity Transfer Right: 
 
“Capacity Transfer Right” shall mean a right, allocated to LSEs serving load in a Locational 
Deliverability Area, to receive payments, based on the transmission import capability into such 
Locational Deliverability Area, that offset, in whole or in part, the charges attributable to the 
Locational Price Adder, if any, included in the Zonal Capacity Price calculated for a Locational 
Delivery Area. 
 
Capacity Transmission Injection Rights: 
 
“Capacity Transmission Injection Rights” shall mean the rights to schedule energy and capacity 
deliveries at a Point of Interconnection of a Merchant Transmission Facility with the 
Transmission System. Capacity Transmission Injection Rights may be awarded only to a 
Merchant D.C. Transmission Facility and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities 
that connects the Transmission System to another control area. Deliveries scheduled using 
Capacity Transmission Injection Rights have rights similar to those under Firm Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service or, if coupled with a generating unit external to the PJM Region that 
satisfies all applicable criteria specified in the PJM Manuals, similar to Capacity Interconnection 
Rights. 
 
Charge Economic Maximum Megawatts: 
 
“Charge Economic Maximum Megawatts” shall mean the greatest magnitude of megawatt power 
consumption available for charging in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Continuous Mode or in Charge Mode.  Charge 
Economic Maximum Megawatts shall be the Economic Minimum for an Energy Storage 
Resource or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode or in Continuous Mode. 
 
Charge Economic Minimum Megawatts: 
 
“Charge Economic Minimum Megawatts” shall mean the smallest magnitude of megawatt power 
consumption available for charging in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode.  Charge Economic Minimum 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 4 
Megawatts shall be the Economic Maximum for an Energy Storage Resource or Open-Loop 
Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode. 
 
Charge Mode: 
 
“Charge Mode” shall mean the mode of operation of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource that only includes negative megawatt quantities (i.e., 
the Energy Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource is only 
withdrawing megawatts from the grid).   
 
Charge Ramp Rate: 
 
“Charge Ramp Rate” shall mean the Ramping Capability of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Charge Mode. 
 
Cleared Capacity Resource with State Subsidy: 
 
“Cleared Capacity Resource with State Subsidy” shall mean a Capacity Resource with State 
Subsidy that has cleared in an RPM Auction for a Delivery Year that is prior to the 2022/2023 
Delivery Year or, starting with 2022/2023 Delivery Year, the MWs (in installed capacity) 
comprising a Capacity Resource with State Subsidy that have cleared an RPM Auction pursuant 
to its Sell Offer at or above its resource-specific MOPR Floor Offer Price or the applicable 
default New Entry MOPR Floor Offer Price and since then, any of those MWs (in installed 
capacity) comprising a Capacity Resource with State Subsidy have been, the subject of a Sell 
Offer into the Base Residual Auction or included in an FRR Capacity Plan at the time of the 
Base Residual Auction for the relevant Delivery Year.   
 
Closed-Loop Hybrid Resource: 
 
“Closed-Loop Hybrid Resource” shall mean a Hybrid Resource that does not operate by 
charging its storage component from the grid. 
 
Cold/Warm/Hot Notification Time: 
 
“Cold/Warm/Hot Notification Time” shall mean the time interval between PJM notification and 
the beginning of the start sequence for a generating unit that is currently in its cold/warm/hot 
temperature state. The start sequence may include steps such as any valve operation, starting feed 
water pumps, startup of auxiliary equipment, etc. 
 
Cold/Warm/Hot Start-up Time: 
 
For all generating units that are not combined cycle units, “Cold/Warm/Hot Start-up Time” shall 
mean the time interval, measured in hours, from the beginning of the start sequence to the point 
after generator breaker closure, which is typically indicated by telemetered or aggregated State 
Estimator megawatts greater than zero for a generating unit in its cold/warm/hot temperature 
state. For combined cycle units, “Cold/Warm/Hot Start-up Time” shall mean the time interval 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 5 
from the beginning of the start sequence to the point after first combustion turbine generator 
breaker closure in its cold/warm/hot temperature state, which is typically indicated by 
telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero. For all generating units, 
the start sequence may include steps such as any valve operation, starting feed water pumps, 
startup of auxiliary equipment, etc. Other more detailed actions that could signal the beginning of 
the start sequence could include, but are not limited to, the operation of pumps, condensers, fans, 
water chemistry evaluations, checklists, valves, fuel systems, combustion turbines, starting 
engines or systems, maintaining stable fuel/air ratios, and other auxiliary equipment necessary 
for startup. 
 
Cold Weather Alert: 
 
“Cold Weather Alert” shall mean the notice that PJM provides to PJM Members, Transmission 
Owners, resource owners and operators, customers, and regulators to prepare personnel and 
facilities for expected extreme cold weather conditions. 
 
Collateral: 
 
“Collateral” shall be a cash deposit, including any interest thereon, or a Letter of Credit issued 
for the benefit of PJM or PJMSettlement, in an amount and form determined by and acceptable 
to PJM or PJMSettlement, provided by a Participant to PJM or PJMSettlement as credit support 
in order to participate in the PJM Markets or take Transmission Service.  “Collateral” shall also 
include surety bonds, except for the purpose of satisfying the FTR Credit Requirement, in which 
case only a cash deposit or Letter of Credit will be acceptable. 
 
Collateral Call: 
 
“Collateral Call” shall mean a notice to a Participant that additional Collateral, or possibly early 
payment, is required in order to remain in, or to regain, compliance with Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Co-Located Resource: 
 
“Co-Located Resource” shall mean a component of a Mixed Technology Facility that operates in 
the capacity, energy, and/or ancillary services market(s) as a separate resource from the other 
components of such facility. 
 
Commencement Date: 
 
“Commencement Date” shall mean the date on which Interconnection Service commences in 
accordance with an Interconnection Service Agreement. 
 
Committed Offer: 
 
The “Committed Offer” shall mean 1) for pool-scheduled resources, an offer on which a resource 
was scheduled by the Office of the Interconnection for a particular clock hour for an Operating 
Day, and 2) for self-scheduled resources, either the offer on which the Market Seller has elected 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 6 
to schedule the resource or the applicable offer for the resource determined pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.4, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 6.4, or Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 6.6, and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.6, for a particular clock hour for an 
Operating Day.  
 
Completed Application: 
 
“Completed Application” shall mean an application that satisfies all of the information and other 
requirements of the Tariff, including any required deposit. 
 
Compliance Aggregation Area (CAA): 
 
“Compliance Aggregation Area” or “CAA” shall mean a geographic area of Zones or sub-Zones 
that are electrically-contiguous and experience for the relevant Delivery Year, based on Resource 
Clearing Prices of, for Delivery Years through May 31, 2018, Annual Resources and for the 
2018/2019 Delivery Year and subsequent Delivery Years, Capacity Performance Resources, the 
same locational price separation in the Base Residual Auction, the same locational price 
separation in the First Incremental Auction, the same locational price separation in the Second 
Incremental Auction, the same locational price separation in the Third Incremental Auction. 
 
Component DER: 
 
“Component DER” shall mean any resource, within the PJM Region, that is located on a 
distribution system, any subsystem thereof, or behind a customer meter, and is used in a DER 
Aggregation Resource by a DER Aggregator to participate in the energy, capacity, and/or 
ancillary services markets of PJM through the DER Aggregator Participation Model.  A 
Component DER may not exceed 5 MW.   
 
Composite Energy Offer:  
 
“Composite Energy Offer” for generation resources shall mean the sum (in $/MWh) of the 
Incremental Energy Offer and amortized Start-Up Costs and amortized No-load Costs, and for 
Economic Load Response Participant resources the sum (in $/MWh) of the Incremental Energy 
Offer and amortized shutdown costs, as determined in accordance with Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 2.4 and Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2.4A and the PJM Manuals. 
 
Conditional Incremental Auction: 
 
“Conditional Incremental Auction” shall mean an Incremental Auction conducted for a Delivery 
Year if and when necessary to secure commitments of additional capacity to address reliability 
criteria violations arising from the delay in a Backbone Transmission upgrade that was modeled 
in the Base Residual Auction for such Delivery Year. 
 
Conditioned State Support: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 7 
“Conditioned State Support” shall mean any financial benefit required or incentivized by a state, 
or political subdivision of a state acting in its sovereign capacity, that is provided outside of PJM 
Markets and in exchange for the sale of a FERC-jurisdictional product conditioned on clearing in 
any RPM Auction, where “conditioned on clearing in any RPM Auction” refers to specific 
directives as to the level of the offer that must be entered for the relevant Generation Capacity 
Resource in the RPM Auction or directives that the Generation Capacity Resource is required to 
clear in any RPM Auction.  Conditioned State Support shall not include any Legacy Policy.   
 
CONE Area: 
 
“CONE Area” shall mean the areas listed in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.10(a)(iv)(A) and 
any LDAs established as CONE Areas pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 
5.10(a)(iv)(B).  
 
Confidential Information: 
 
“Confidential Information” shall mean any confidential, proprietary, or trade secret information 
of a plan, specification, pattern, procedure, design, device, list, concept, policy, or compilation 
relating to the present or planned business of a New Service Customer, Transmission Owner, or 
other Interconnection Party or Construction Party, which is designated as confidential by the 
party supplying the information, whether conveyed verbally, electronically, in writing, through 
inspection, or otherwise, and shall include, without limitation, all information relating to the 
producing party’s technology, research and development, business affairs and pricing, and any 
information supplied by any New Service Customer, Transmission Owner, or other 
Interconnection Party or Construction Party to another such party prior to the execution of an 
Interconnection Service Agreement or a Construction Service Agreement. 
 
Congestion Price: 
 
“Congestion Price” shall mean the congestion component of the Locational Marginal Price, 
which is the effect on transmission congestion costs (whether positive or negative) associated 
with increasing the output of a generation resource or decreasing the consumption by a Demand 
Resource, based on the effect of increased generation from or consumption by the resource on 
transmission line loadings, calculated as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2. 
 
Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, PJM Transmission Owners Agreement or 
Transmission Owners Agreement: 
 
“Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement,” “PJM Transmission Owners Agreement” or 
“Transmission Owners Agreement” shall mean the certain Consolidated Transmission Owners 
Agreement dated as of December 15, 2005, by and among the Transmission Owners and by and 
between the Transmission Owners and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. on file with the 
Commission, as amended from time to time. 
 
Constraint Relaxation Logic:  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 8 
 
“Constraint Relaxation Logic” shall mean the logic applied in the market clearing software 
where the transmission limit is increased to prevent the Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor 
from setting the Marginal Value of a transmission constraint.  
 
Constructing Entity: 
 
“Constructing Entity” shall mean either the Transmission Owner or the New Services Customer, 
depending on which entity has the construction responsibility pursuant to Tariff, Part VI and the 
applicable Construction Service Agreement; this term shall also be used to refer to an 
Interconnection Customer with respect to the construction of the Customer Interconnection 
Facilities. 
 
Construction Party: 
 
“Construction Party” shall mean a party to a Construction Service Agreement.  “Construction 
Parties” shall mean all of the Parties to a Construction Service Agreement. 
 
Construction Service Agreement: 
 
“Construction Service Agreement” shall mean either an Interconnection Construction Service 
Agreement or an Upgrade Construction Service Agreement. 
 
Contingent Facilities: 
 
“Contingent Facilities” shall mean those unbuilt Interconnection Facilities and Network 
Upgrades upon which the Interconnection Request’s costs, timing, and study findings are 
dependent and, if delayed or not built, could cause a need for restudies of the Interconnection 
Request or a reassessment of the Interconnection Facilities and/or Network Upgrades and/or 
costs and timing. 
 
Continuous Mode: 
 
“Continuous Mode” shall mean the mode of operation of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource that includes both negative and positive megawatt 
quantities (i.e., the Energy Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource 
is capable of continually and immediately transitioning from withdrawing megawatt quantities 
from the grid to injecting megawatt quantities onto the grid or injecting megawatts to 
withdrawing megawatts).  Energy Storage Resource Model Participants or Open-Loop Hybrid 
Resource operating in Continuous Mode are considered to have an unlimited ramp rate.  
Continuous Mode requires Discharge Economic Maximum Megawatts to be zero or correspond 
to an injection, and Charge Economic Maximum Megawatts to be zero or correspond to a 
withdrawal. 
 
Control Area: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 9 
“Control Area” shall mean an electric power system or combination of electric power systems 
bounded by interconnection metering and telemetry to which a common automatic generation 
control scheme is applied in order to: 
 
 (1) match the power output of the generators within the electric power system(s) and 
energy purchased from entities outside the electric power system(s), with the load within the 
electric power system(s); 
 
 (2) maintain scheduled interchange with other Control Areas, within the limits of 
Good Utility Practice; 
 
 (3) maintain the frequency of the electric power system(s) within reasonable limits in 
accordance with Good Utility Practice; and 
 
 (4) provide sufficient generating capacity to maintain operating reserves in 
accordance with Good Utility Practice. 
 
Control Zone: 
 
“Control Zone” shall have the meaning given in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities: 
 
“Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities” shall mean transmission facilities that (1) 
employ technology which Transmission Provider reviews and verifies will permit control of 
the amount and/or direction of power flow on such facilities to such extent as to effectively 
enable the controllable facilities to be operated as if they were direct current transmission 
facilities, and (2) that are interconnected with the Transmission System pursuant to Tariff, Part 
IV and Tariff, Part VI. 
 
Coordinated External Transaction: 
 
“Coordinated External Transaction” shall mean a transaction to simultaneously purchase and sell 
energy on either side of a CTS Enabled Interface in accordance with the procedures of Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.13, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.13. 
 
Coordinated Transaction Scheduling: 
 
“Coordinated Transaction Scheduling” or “CTS” shall mean the scheduling of Coordinated 
External Transactions at a CTS Enabled Interface in accordance with the procedures of 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.13, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 1.13. 
 
Corporate Guaranty: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 10 
“Corporate Guaranty” shall mean a legal document, in a form acceptable to PJM and/or 
PJMSettlement, used by a Credit Affiliate of an entity to guaranty the obligations of another 
entity. 
 
Cost of New Entry: 
 
“Cost of New Entry” or “CONE” shall mean the nominal levelized cost of a Reference Resource, 
as determined in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5. 
 
Costs: 
 
As used in Tariff, Part IV, Tariff, Part VI and related attachments, “Costs” shall mean costs and 
expenses, as estimated or calculated, as applicable, including, but not limited to, capital 
expenditures, if applicable, and overhead, return, and the costs of financing and taxes and any 
Incidental Expenses. 
 
Counterparty:  
 
“Counterparty” shall mean PJMSettlement as the contracting party, in its name and own right 
and not as an agent, to an agreement or transaction with a Market Participant or other entities, 
including the agreements and transactions with customers regarding transmission service and 
other transactions under the PJM Tariff and the Operating Agreement.  PJMSettlement shall not 
be a counterparty to (i) any bilateral transactions between Members, or (ii) any Member’s self-
supply of energy to serve its load, or (iii) any Member’s self-schedule of energy reported to the 
Office of the Interconnection to the extent that energy serves that Member’s own load. 
 
Credit Affiliate: 
 
“Credit Affiliate” shall mean Principals, corporations, partnerships, firms, joint ventures, 
associations, joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations or entities, one of which 
directly or indirectly controls the other or that are both under common Control. “Control,” as that 
term is used in this definition, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to 
direct the management or policies of a person or an entity. 
 
Credit Available for Export Transactions: 
 
“Credit Available for Export Transactions” shall mean a designation of credit to be used for 
Export Transactions that is allocated by each Market Participant from its Credit Available for 
Virtual Transactions, and which reduces the Market Participant's Credit Available for Virtual 
Transactions accordingly. 
 
Credit Available for Virtual Transactions: 
 
“Credit Available for Virtual Transactions” shall mean the Market Participant’s Working Credit 
Limit for Virtual Transactions calculated on its credit provided in compliance with its Peak 
Market Activity requirement plus available credit submitted above that amount, less any unpaid 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 11 
billed and unbilled amounts owed to PJMSettlement, plus any unpaid unbilled amounts owed by 
PJMSettlement to the Market Participant, less any applicable credit required for Minimum 
Participation Requirements, FTRs, RPM activity,  or other credit requirement determinants as 
defined in Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Credit Breach: 
 
“Credit Breach” shall mean (a) the failure of a Participant to perform, observe, meet or comply 
with any requirements of Tariff, Attachment Q or other provisions of the Agreements, other than 
a Financial Default, or (b) a determination by PJM and notice to the Participant that a Participant 
represents an unreasonable credit risk to the PJM Markets; that, in either event, has not been 
cured or remedied after any required notice has been given and any cure period has elapsed. 
 
Credit-Limited Offer: 
 
“Credit-Limited Offer” shall mean a Sell Offer that is submitted by a Market Participant in an 
RPM Auction subject to a maximum credit requirement specified by such Market Participant. 
 
Credit Support Default: 
 
“Credit Support Default,” shall mean (a) the failure of any Guarantor of a Market Participant to 
make any payment, or to perform, observe, meet or comply with any provisions of the applicable 
Guaranty or Credit Support Document that has not been cured or remedied, after any required 
notice has been given and an opportunity to cure (if any) has elapsed, (b) a representation made 
or deemed made by a Guarantor in any Credit Support Document that proves to be false, 
incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed made, (c) the failure of a 
Guaranty or other Credit Support Document to be in full force and effect prior to the satisfaction 
of all obligations of such Participant to PJM, without PJM’s consent, or (d) a Guarantor 
repudiating, disaffirming, disclaiming or rejecting, in whole or in part, its obligations under the 
Guaranty or challenging the validity of the Guaranty.  
 
Credit Support Document:  
 
“Credit Support Document” shall mean any agreement or instrument in any way guaranteeing or 
securing any or all of a Participant’s obligations under the Agreements (including, without 
limitation, the provisions of Tariff, Attachment Q), any agreement entered into under, pursuant 
to, or in connection with the Agreements or any agreement entered into under, pursuant to, or in 
connection with the Agreements and/or any other agreement to which PJM, PJMSettlement and 
the Participant are parties, including, without limitation, any Corporate Guaranty, Letter of 
Credit, or agreement granting PJM and PJMSettlement a security interest. 
 
Critical Natural Gas Infrastructure:  
 
“Critical Natural Gas Infrastructure” shall mean locations with electrical loads that are involved 
in natural gas production, processing, intrastate and interstate transmission and distribution 
pipeline facility as defined by NERC/FERC standard(s); and until such NERC/FERC standard(s) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 12 
is developed, is defined as electric loads that are involved in natural gas production, processing, 
intrastate and interstate transmission and distribution pipeline facility, which if curtailed, will 
impact the delivery of natural gas to bulk-power system natural gas-fired generation. 
 
Cross-Border: 
 
When used to describe Network Integration Transmission Service, Network External Designated 
Transmission Service or Point-to-Point Transmission Service, “Cross-Border” shall mean 
transmission service where the capacity and/or energy is delivered from a resource that is not 
part of the PJM Transmission System and/or to load that is not part of the PJM Transmission 
System. 
 
CTS Enabled Interface: 
 
“CTS Enabled Interface” shall mean an interface between the PJM Control Area and an adjacent 
Control Area at which the Office of the Interconnection has authorized the use of Coordinated 
Transaction Scheduling (“CTS”). The CTS Enabled Interfaces between the PJM Control Area 
and the New York Independent System Operator, Inc. Control Area shall be designated in the 
Joint Operating Agreement Among and Between New York Independent System Operator Inc. 
and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Schedule A (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 45).  The CTS 
Enabled Interfaces between the PJM Control Area and the Midcontinent Independent System 
Operator, Inc. shall be designated consistent with Attachment 3, section 2 of the Joint Operating 
Agreement between Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. and PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. 
 
CTS Interface Bid: 
 
“CTS Interface Bid” shall mean a unified real-time bid to simultaneously purchase and sell 
energy on either side of a CTS Enabled Interface in accordance with the procedures of Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.13, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.13. 
 
Curtailment: 
 
“Curtailment” shall mean a reduction in firm or non-firm transmission service in response to a 
transfer capability shortage as a result of system reliability conditions. 
 
Curtailment Service Provider: 
 
“Curtailment Service Provider” or “CSP” shall mean a Member or a Special Member, which 
action on behalf of itself or one or more other Members or non-Members, participates in the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market, Ancillary Services markets, and/or Reliability Pricing Model by 
causing a reduction in demand. 
 
Customer Facility: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 13 
“Customer Facility” shall mean Generation Facilities or Merchant Transmission Facilities 
interconnected with or added to the Transmission System pursuant to an Interconnection Request 
under Tariff, Part IV. 
 
Customer-Funded Upgrade: 
 
“Customer-Funded Upgrade” shall mean any Network Upgrade, Local Upgrade, or Merchant 
Network Upgrade for which cost responsibility (i) is imposed on an Interconnection Customer or 
an Eligible Customer pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, section 217, or (ii) is voluntarily undertaken by 
a New Service Customer in fulfillment of an Upgrade Request.  No Network Upgrade, Local 
Upgrade or Merchant Network Upgrade or other transmission expansion or enhancement shall be 
a Customer-Funded Upgrade if and to the extent that the costs thereof are included in the rate 
base of a public utility on which a regulated return is earned. 
 
Customer Interconnection Facilities: 
 
“Customer Interconnection Facilities” shall mean all facilities and equipment owned and/or 
controlled, operated and maintained by Interconnection Customer on Interconnection Customer’s 
side of the Point of Interconnection identified in the appropriate appendices to the 
Interconnection Service Agreement and to the Interconnection Construction Service Agreement, 
including any modifications, additions, or upgrades made to such facilities and equipment, that 
are necessary to physically and electrically interconnect the Customer Facility with the 
Transmission System. 
 
Daily Deficiency Rate: 
 
“Daily Deficiency Rate” shall mean the rate employed to assess certain deficiency charges under 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 7, Tariff, Attachment DD, section 8, Tariff, Attachment DD, 
section 9, or Tariff, Attachment DD, section 13. 
 
Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation: 
 
“Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation” shall mean the capacity obligation of a Load Serving 
Entity during the Delivery Year, determined in accordance with  Reliability Assurance 
Agreement, Schedule 8, or, as to an FRR entity, in Reliability Assurance Agreement, Schedule 
8.1. 
 
Day-ahead Congestion Price: 
 
“Day-ahead Congestion Price” shall mean the Congestion Price resulting from the Day-ahead 
Energy Market. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market” shall mean the schedule of commitments for the purchase or sale of 
energy and payment of Transmission Congestion Charges developed by the Office of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 14 
Interconnection as a result of the offers and specifications submitted in accordance with 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.10 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 1.10. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market Injection Congestion Credits: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market Injection Congestion Credits” shall mean those congestion credits 
paid to Market Participants for supply transactions in the Day-ahead Energy Market including 
generation schedules, Increment Offers, Up-to Congestion Transactions, import transactions, and 
Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transactions. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market Transmission Congestion Charges” shall be equal to the sum of Day-
ahead Energy Market Withdrawal Congestion Charges minus [the sum of Day-ahead Energy 
Market Injection Congestion Credits plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to the Joint 
Operating Agreement between the Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, 
Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC No. 38), plus any congestion 
charges calculated pursuant to the Joint Operating Agreement Among and Between New York 
Independent System Operator Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM Rate Schedule FERC 
No. 45), plus any congestion charges calculated pursuant to agreements between the Office of 
the Interconnection and other entities, as applicable)]. 
 
Day-ahead Energy Market Withdrawal Congestion Charges: 
 
“Day-ahead Energy Market Withdrawal Congestion Charges” shall mean those congestion 
charges collected from Market Participants for withdrawal transactions in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market from transactions including Demand Bids, Decrement Bids, Up-to Congestion 
Transactions, Export Transactions, and Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transactions. 
 
Day-ahead Loss Price: 
 
“Day-ahead Loss Price” shall mean the Loss Price resulting from the Day-ahead Energy Market. 
 
Day-ahead Prices: 
 
“Day-ahead Prices” shall mean the Locational Marginal Prices resulting from the Day-ahead 
Energy Market. 
 
Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transaction:  
 
“Day-Ahead Pseudo-Tie Transaction” shall mean a transaction scheduled in the Day-ahead 
Energy Market to the PJM-MISO interface from a generator within the PJM balancing authority 
area that Pseudo-Ties into the MISO balancing authority area. 
 
Day-ahead Settlement Interval:  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 15 
 
“Day-ahead Settlement Interval” shall mean the interval used by settlements, which shall be 
every one clock hour.  
 
Day-ahead System Energy Price: 
 
“Day-ahead System Energy Price” shall mean the System Energy Price resulting from the Day-
ahead Energy Market. 
 
Deactivation: 
 
“Deactivation” shall mean the retirement or mothballing of a generating unit governed by Tariff, 
Part V. 
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit: 
 
“Deactivation Avoidable Cost Credit” shall mean the credit paid to Generation Owners pursuant 
to Tariff, Part V, section 114. 
 
Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate: 
 
“Deactivation Avoidable Cost Rate” shall mean the formula rate established pursuant to Tariff, 
Part V, section 115. 
 
Deactivation Date: 
 
“Deactivation Date” shall mean the date a generating unit within the PJM Region is either retired 
or mothballed and ceases to operate. 
 
Decrement Bid: 
 
“Decrement Bid” shall mean a type of Virtual Transaction that is a bid to purchase energy at a 
specified location in the Day-ahead Energy Market.  A cleared Decrement Bid results in 
scheduled load at the specified location in the Day-ahead Energy Market. 
 
Default: 
 
As used in the Interconnection Service Agreement and Construction Service Agreement, 
“Default” shall mean the failure of a Breaching Party to cure its Breach in accordance with the 
applicable provisions of an Interconnection Service Agreement or Construction Service 
Agreement. 
 
Delivering Party: 
 
“Delivering Party” shall mean the entity supplying capacity and energy to be transmitted at 
Point(s) of Receipt. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 16 
 
Delivery Year: 
 
“Delivery Year” shall mean the Planning Period for which a Capacity Resource is committed 
pursuant to the auction procedures specified in Tariff, Attachment DD, or pursuant to an FRR 
Capacity Plan under Reliability Assurance Agreement, Schedule 8.1. 
 
Demand Bid: 
 
“Demand Bid” shall mean a bid, submitted by a Load Serving Entity in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market, to purchase energy at its contracted load location, for a specified timeframe and 
megawatt quantity, that if cleared will result in energy being scheduled at the specified location 
in the Day-ahead Energy Market and in the physical transfer of energy during the relevant 
Operating Day.   
 
Demand Bid Limit: 
 
“Demand Bid Limit” shall mean the largest MW volume of Demand Bids that may be submitted 
by a Load Serving Entity for any hour of an Operating Day, as determined pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.10.1B, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.10.1B. 
 
Demand Bid Screening: 
 
“Demand Bid Screening” shall mean the process by which Demand Bids are reviewed against 
the applicable Demand Bid Limit, and rejected if they would exceed that limit, as determined 
pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.10.1B, and the parallel provisions of 
Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.10.1B. 
 
Demand Resource: 
 
“Demand Resource” shall mean a resource with the capability to provide a reduction in demand. 
 
Demand Resource Factor or DR Factor: 
 
“Demand Resource Factor” or (“DR Factor”) shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
DER Aggregation Resource: 
 
“DER Aggregation Resource” shall be comprised of one or more Component DER.  A DER 
Aggregation Resource is used by a DER Aggregator to participate in the energy, capacity, and/or 
ancillary services markets of PJM through the DER Aggregator Participation Model.  A DER 
Aggregation Resource is capable of satisfying a minimum energy and/or ancillary services 
market offer of 100 kW.  The market participation eligibility of a DER Aggregation Resource 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 17 
shall be determined in accordance with the physical and operational characteristics of the 
underlying Component DER that comprise the DER Aggregation Resource. 
 
DER Aggregator: 
 
“DER Aggregator” shall mean an entity that is a Market Participant that: (i) uses one or more 
DER Aggregation Resources to participate in the energy, capacity, and/or ancillary services 
markets of PJM through the DER Aggregator Participation Model; and (ii) has a fully-executed 
DER Aggregator Participation Service Agreement. 
 
DER Aggregator Participation Model: 
 
“DER Aggregator Participation Model” shall mean the participation model described in Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.4B. 
 
DER Capacity Aggregation Resource: 
 
“DER Capacity Aggregation Resource” shall mean one or more DER Aggregation Resource that 
participates in the Reliability Pricing Model, capable of satisfying a minimum capacity market 
offer of 100 kW, or is otherwise treated as capacity in PJM’s markets, such as through a Fixed 
Resource Requirement Capacity Plan, for the 2028/2029 Delivery Year and all subsequent 
Delivery Years.   
 
Designated Agent: 
 
“Designated Agent” shall mean any entity that performs actions or functions on behalf of the 
Transmission Provider, a Transmission Owner, an Eligible Customer, or the Transmission 
Customer required under the Tariff. 
 
Designated Entity: 
 
“Designated Entity” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Direct Assignment Facilities: 
 
“Direct Assignment Facilities” shall mean facilities or portions of facilities that are constructed 
for the sole use/benefit of a particular Transmission Customer requesting service under the 
Tariff.  Direct Assignment Facilities shall be specified in the Service Agreement that governs 
service to the Transmission Customer and shall be subject to Commission approval. 
 
Direct Charging Energy: 
 
“Direct Charging Energy” shall mean the energy that an Energy Storage Resource or Open-Loop 
Hybrid Resource purchases from the PJM Interchange Energy Market and (i) later resells to the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market; or (ii) is lost to conversion inefficiencies, provided that such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 18 
inefficiencies are an unavoidable component of the conversion, storage, and discharge process 
that is used to resell energy back to the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Direct Load Control: 
 
“Direct Load Control” shall mean load reduction that is controlled directly by the Curtailment 
Service Provider’s market operations center or its agent, in response to PJM instructions. 
 
Discharge Economic Maximum Megawatts: 
 
“Discharge Economic Maximum Megawatts” shall mean the maximum megawatt power output 
available for discharge in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model Participant 
or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Continuous Mode or in Discharge Mode. Discharge 
Economic Maximum Megawatts shall be the Economic Maximum for an Energy Storage 
Resource or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Discharge Mode or in Continuous Mode. 
 
Discharge Economic Minimum Megawatts: 
 
“Discharge Economic Minimum Megawatts” shall mean the minimum megawatt power output 
available for discharge in economic dispatch by an Energy Storage Resource Model Participant 
or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Discharge Mode.  Discharge Economic Minimum Megawatts 
shall be the Economic Minimum for an Energy Storage Resource or Open-Loop Hybrid 
Resource in Discharge Mode. 
 
Discharge Mode: 
 
“Discharge Mode” shall mean the mode of operation of an Energy Storage Resource Model 
Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource that only includes positive megawatt quantities (i.e., 
the Energy Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource is only injecting 
megawatts onto the grid).   
 
Discharge Ramp Rate: 
 
“Discharge Ramp Rate” shall mean the Ramping Capability of an Energy Storage Resource 
Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource in Discharge Mode. 
 
Dispatch Rate: 
 
“Dispatch Rate” shall mean the control signal, expressed in dollars per megawatt-hour, 
calculated and transmitted continuously and dynamically to direct the output level of all 
generation resources dispatched by the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with the 
Offer Data. 
 
Dispatched Charging Energy:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – C-D 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 19 
“Dispatched Charging Energy” shall mean Direct Charging Energy that an Energy Storage 
Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource receives from the electric grid 
pursuant to PJM dispatch while providing one of the following services in the PJM markets: 
Energy Imbalance Service pursuant to Tariff, Schedule 4; Regulation; Tier 2 Synchronized 
Reserves; or Reactive Service.  Energy Storage Resource Model Participants and Open-Loop 
Hybrid Resource shall be considered to be providing Energy Imbalance Service when they are 
dispatchable by PJM in real-time.   
 
Dynamic Schedule: 
 
“Dynamic Schedule” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Dynamic Transfer: 
 
“Dynamic Transfer” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 1 
Definitions – E - F 
 
Economic-based Enhancement or Expansion: 
 
“Economic-based Enhancement or Expansion” shall have the same meaning provided in the 
Operating Agreement. 
 
Economic Load Response Participant: 
 
“Economic Load Response Participant” shall mean a Member or Special Member that qualifies 
under Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.5A, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.5A, to participate in the PJM Interchange Energy Market 
and/or Ancillary Services markets through reductions in demand. 
 
Economic Maximum: 
 
“Economic Maximum” shall mean the highest incremental MW output level, submitted to PJM 
market systems by a Market Participant, that a unit can achieve while following economic 
dispatch.   
 
Economic Minimum: 
 
“Economic Minimum” shall mean the lowest incremental MW output level, submitted to PJM 
market systems by a Market Participant, that a unit can achieve while following economic 
dispatch. 
 
Effective FTR Holder: 
 
“Effective FTR Holder” shall mean: 
 
(i) For an FTR Holder that is either a (a) privately held company, or (b) a municipality or 
electric cooperative, as defined in the Federal Power Act, such FTR Holder, together with 
any Affiliate, subsidiary or parent of the FTR Holder, any other entity that is under common 
ownership, wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, or has the ability to influence, directly or 
indirectly, the management or policies of the FTR Holder; or  
 
(ii) For an FTR Holder that is a publicly traded company including a wholly owned 
subsidiary of a publicly traded company, such FTR Holder, together with any Affiliate, 
subsidiary or parent of the FTR Holder, any other PJM Member has over 10% common 
ownership with the FTR Holder, wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, or has the ability to 
influence, directly or indirectly, the management or policies of the FTR Holder; or  
 
(iii)  an FTR Holder together with any other PJM Member, including also any Affiliate, 
subsidiary or parent of such other PJM Member, with which it shares common ownership, 
wholly or partly, directly or indirectly, in any third entity which is a PJM Member (e.g., a 
joint venture). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 2 
 
 
EFORd: 
 
“EFORd” shall have the meaning specified in the PJM Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Electrical Distance: 
 
“Electrical Distance” shall mean, for a Generation Capacity Resource geographically located 
outside the metered boundaries of the PJM Region, the measure of distance, based on impedance 
and in accordance with the PJM Manuals, from the Generation Capacity Resource to the PJM 
Region. 
 
Eligible Customer: 
 
“Eligible Customer” shall mean: 
 
(i) Any electric utility (including any Transmission Owner and any power marketer), Federal 
power marketing agency, or any person generating electric energy for sale for resale is an 
Eligible Customer under the Tariff.  Electric energy sold or produced by such entity may be 
electric energy produced in the United States, Canada or Mexico.  However, with respect to 
transmission service that the Commission is prohibited from ordering by Section 212(h) of the 
Federal Power Act, such entity is eligible only if the service is provided pursuant to a state 
requirement that the Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner offer the unbundled 
transmission service, or pursuant to a voluntary offer of such service by a Transmission Owner. 
 
(ii) Any retail customer taking unbundled transmission service pursuant to a state requirement 
that the Transmission Provider or a Transmission Owner offer the transmission service, or 
pursuant to a voluntary offer of such service by a Transmission Owner, is an Eligible Customer 
under the Tariff.  As used in Tariff, Part VI, Eligible Customer shall mean only those Eligible 
Customers that have submitted a Completed Application. 
 
Eligible Fast-Start Resource: 
 
“Eligible Fast-Start Resource” shall mean a Fast-Start Resource that is eligible for the 
application of Integer Relaxation during the calculation of Locational Marginal Prices as set 
forth in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2.2. 
 
Emergency Action: 
 
“Emergency Action” shall mean any emergency action for locational or system-wide capacity 
shortages that either utilizes pre-emergency mandatory load management reductions or other 
emergency capacity, or initiates a more severe action including, but not limited to, a Voltage 
Reduction Warning, Voltage Reduction Action, Manual Load Dump Warning, or Manual Load 
Dump Action. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 3 
Emergency Condition: 
 
“Emergency Condition” shall mean a condition or situation (i) that in the judgment of any 
Interconnection Party is imminently likely to endanger life or property; or (ii) that in the 
judgment of the Interconnected Transmission Owner or Transmission Provider is imminently 
likely (as determined in a non-discriminatory manner) to cause a material adverse effect on the 
security of, or damage to, the Transmission System, the Interconnection Facilities, or the 
transmission systems or distribution systems to which the Transmission System is directly or 
indirectly connected; or (iii) that in the judgment of Interconnection Customer is imminently 
likely (as determined in a non-discriminatory manner) to cause damage to the Customer Facility 
or to the Customer Interconnection Facilities.  System restoration and black start shall be 
considered Emergency Conditions, provided that a Generation Interconnection Customer is not 
obligated by an Interconnection Service Agreement to possess black start capability.  Any 
condition or situation that results from lack of sufficient generating capacity to meet load 
requirements or that results solely from economic conditions shall not constitute an Emergency 
Condition, unless one or more of the enumerated conditions or situations identified in this 
definition also exists. 
 
Emergency Load Response Program: 
“Emergency Load Response Program” shall mean the program by which Curtailment Service 
Providers may be compensated by PJM for Demand Resources that will reduce load when 
dispatched by PJM during emergency conditions, and is described in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 8  and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 8.  
 
Emergency Rating:  
 
“Emergency Rating” shall mean a Transmission Facility Rating that reflects operation for a 
specified, finite period, rather than reflecting continuous operation.  An Emergency Rating may 
assume an acceptable loss of equipment life or other physical or safety limitations for the 
equipment involved. 
 
Energy Efficiency Resource: 
 
“Energy Efficiency Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the PJM Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Energy Market Opportunity Cost: 
 
“Energy Market Opportunity Cost” shall mean the difference between (a) the forecasted cost to 
operate a specific generating unit when the unit only has a limited number of available run hours 
due to limitations imposed on the unit by Applicable Laws and Regulations, and (b) the 
forecasted future Locational Marginal Price at which the generating unit could run while not 
violating such limitations.  Energy Market Opportunity Cost therefore is the value associated 
with a specific generating unit’s lost opportunity to produce energy during a higher valued period 
of time occurring within the same compliance period, which compliance period is determined by 
the applicable regulatory authority and is reflected in the rules set forth in PJM Manual 15.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 4 
Energy Market Opportunity Costs shall be limited to those resources which are specifically 
delineated in Operating Agreement, Schedule 2. 
 
Energy Resource: 
 
“Energy Resource” shall mean a Generating Facility that is not a Capacity Resource. 
 
Energy Settlement Area: 
 
“Energy Settlement Area” shall mean the bus or distribution of busses that represents the 
physical location of Network Load and by which the obligations of the Network Customer to 
PJM are settled. 
 
Energy Storage Resource: 
 
“Energy Storage Resource” shall mean a resource capable of receiving electric energy from the 
grid and storing it for later injection to the grid that participates in the PJM Energy, Capacity 
and/or Ancillary Services markets as a Market Participant.  Open-Loop Hybrid Resources are not 
Energy Storage Resources. 
 
Energy Storage Resource Model Participant:  
 
“Energy Storage Resource Model Participant” shall mean an Energy Storage Resource utilizing 
the Energy Storage Resource Participation Model.   
 
Energy Storage Resource Participation Model:  
 
“Energy Storage Resource Participation Model” shall mean the participation model accepted by 
the Commission in Docket No. ER19-469-000. 
 
Energy Transmission Injection Rights: 
 
“Energy Transmission Injection Rights” shall mean the rights to schedule energy deliveries at a 
specified point on the Transmission System. Energy Transmission Injection Rights may be 
awarded only to a Merchant D.C. Transmission Facility that connects the Transmission System 
to another control area. Deliveries scheduled using Energy Transmission Injection Rights have 
rights similar to those under Non-Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service. 
 
Entity Providing Supply Services to Default Retail Service Provider: 
 
“Entity Providing Supply Services to Default Retail Service Provider” shall mean any entity, 
including but not limited to a load aggregator or power marketer, providing supply services to an 
electric distribution company when that electric distribution company is serving as the default 
retail service provider, and that enters into a contract or similar obligation with such electric 
distribution company to serve retail customers who have not selected a competitive retail service 
provider.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 5 
 
Environmental Laws: 
 
“Environmental Laws” shall mean applicable Laws or Regulations relating to pollution or 
protection of the environment, natural resources or human health and safety. 
 
Environmentally-Limited Resource: 
 
“Environmentally-Limited Resource” shall mean a resource which has a limit on its run hours 
imposed by a federal, state, or other governmental agency that will significantly limit its 
availability, on either a temporary or long-term basis. This includes a resource that is limited by a 
governmental authority to operating only during declared PJM capacity emergencies. 
 
Equivalent Load: 
 
“Equivalent Load” shall mean the sum of a Market Participant’s net system requirements to 
serve its customer load in the PJM Region, if any, plus its net bilateral transactions. 
 
Event of Default: 
 
“Event of Default,” as that term is used in Tariff, Attachment Q, shall mean a Financial Default, 
Credit Breach, or Credit Support Default.   
 
Exercise of Buyer-Side Market Power: 
 
“Exercise of Buyer-Side Market Power” shall mean anti-competitive behavior of a Capacity 
Market Seller with a Load Interest, or directed by an entity with a Load Interest, to 
uneconomically lower RPM Auction Sell Offer(s) in order to suppress RPM Auction clearing 
prices for the overall benefit of the Capacity Market Seller’s (and/or affiliates of Capacity 
Market Seller) portfolio of generation and load or that of the directing entity with a Load Interest 
as determined pursuant to Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14(h-2)(2)(B). A bilateral contract 
between the Capacity Market Seller and an entity with a Load Interest with the express purpose 
of lowering capacity market clearing prices shall be evidence of the Exercise of Buyer-Side 
Market Power. 
 
Existing Generation Capacity Resource: 
 
“Existing Generation Capacity Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Export Credit Exposure: 
  
“Export Credit Exposure” is determined for each Market Participant for a given Operating Day, 
and shall mean the sum of credit exposures for the Market Participant’s Export Transactions for 
that Operating Day and for the preceding Operating Day. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 6 
Export Nodal Reference Price: 
 
“Export Nodal Reference Price” at each location is the 97th percentile, shall be, the real-time 
hourly integrated price experienced over the corresponding two-month period in the preceding 
calendar year, calculated separately for peak and off-peak time periods.  The two-month time 
periods used in this calculation shall be January and February, March and April, May and June, 
July and August, September and October, and November and December.  
 
Export Transaction: 
  
“Export Transaction” shall be a transaction by a Market Participant that results in the transfer of 
energy from within the PJM Control Area to outside the PJM Control Area.  Coordinated 
External Transactions that result in the transfer of energy from the PJM Control Area to an 
adjacent Control Area are one form of Export Transaction.   
 
Export Transaction Price Factor: 
 
“Export Transaction Price Factor” for a prospective time interval shall be the greater of (i) PJM’s 
forecast price for the time interval, if available, or (ii) the Export Nodal Reference Price, but 
shall not exceed the Export Transaction’s dispatch ceiling price cap, if any, for that time interval.  
The Export Transaction Price Factor for a past time interval shall be calculated in the same 
manner as for a prospective time interval, except that the Export Transaction Price Factor may 
use a tentative or final settlement price, as available. If an Export Nodal Reference Price is not 
available for a particular time interval, PJM may use an Export Transaction Price Factor for that 
time interval based on an appropriate alternate reference price. 
 
Export Transaction Screening: 
 
“Export Transaction Screening” shall be the process PJM uses to review the Export Credit 
Exposure of Export Transactions against the Credit Available for Export Transactions, and deny 
or curtail all or a portion of an Export Transaction, if the credit required for such transactions is 
greater than the credit available for the transactions.   
 
Export Transactions Net Activity: 
 
“Export Transactions Net Activity” shall mean the aggregate net total, resulting from Export 
Transactions, of (i) Spot Market Energy charges, (ii) Transmission Congestion Charges, and (iii) 
Transmission Loss Charges, calculated as set forth in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1 and the 
parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix.  Export Transactions Net Activity may be 
positive or negative. 
 
Extended Primary Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Extended Primary Reserve Requirement” shall equal the Primary Reserve Requirement in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone, plus 190 MW, plus any additional reserves scheduled under 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 7 
emergency conditions necessary to address operational uncertainty.  The Extended Primary 
Reserve Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  
 
Extended Summer Demand Resource:  
 
“Extended Summer Demand Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Extended Summer Resource Price Adder:  
 
“Extended Summer Resource Price Adder” shall mean, for Delivery Years through May 31, 
2018, an addition to the marginal value of Unforced Capacity as necessary to reflect the price of 
Annual Resources and Extended Summer Demand Resources required to meet the applicable 
Minimum Extended Summer Resource Requirement. 
 
Extended Synchronized Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Extended Synchronized Reserve Requirement” shall equal the Synchronized Reserve 
Requirement in a Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone, plus 190 MW, plus any additional reserves 
scheduled under emergency conditions necessary to address operational uncertainty. The 
Extended Synchronized Reserve Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
Extended 30-minute Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Extended 30-minute Reserve Requirement” shall equal the 30-minute Reserve Requirement in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone, plus 190 MW, plus any additional reserves scheduled under 
emergency conditions necessary to address operational uncertainty.  The Extended 30-minute 
Reserve Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
External Market Buyer: 
 
“External Market Buyer” shall mean a Market Buyer making purchases of energy from the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market for consumption by end-users outside the PJM Region, or for load in 
the PJM Region that is not served by Network Transmission Service. 
 
External Resource: 
 
“External Resource” shall mean a generation resource located outside the metered boundaries of 
the PJM Region. 
 
Facilities Study: 
 
“Facilities Study” shall be an engineering study conducted by the Transmission Provider (in 
coordination with the affected Transmission Owner(s)) to: (1) determine the required 
modifications to the Transmission Provider’s Transmission System necessary to implement the 
conclusions of the System Impact Study; and (2) complete any additional studies or analyses 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 8 
documented in the System Impact Study or required by PJM Manuals, and determine the 
required modifications to the Transmission Provider’s Transmission System based on the 
conclusions of such additional studies.  The Facilities Study shall include the cost and scheduled 
completion date for such modifications, that will be required to provide the requested 
transmission service or to accommodate a New Service Request.  As used in the Interconnection 
Service Agreement or Construction Service Agreement, Facilities Study shall mean that certain 
Facilities Study conducted by Transmission Provider (or at its direction) to determine the design 
and specification of the Customer Funded Upgrades necessary to accommodate the New Service 
Customer’s New Service Request in accordance with Tariff, Part VI, section 207.  
 
Fast-Start Resource:  
 
“Fast-Start Resource” shall have the meaning set forth in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 2.2A 
 
Federal Power Act: 
 
“Federal Power Act” shall mean the Federal Power Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. §§ 791a, et seq. 
 
FERC or Commission: 
 
“FERC” or “Commission” shall mean the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or any 
successor federal agency, commission or department exercising jurisdiction over the Tariff, 
Operating Agreement and Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
FERC Market Rules: 
 
 “FERC Market Rules” mean the market behavior rules and the prohibition against electric 
energy market manipulation codified by the Commission in its Rules and Regulations at 18 CFR 
§§ 1c.2 and 35.37, respectively; the Commission-approved PJM Market Rules and any related 
proscriptions or any successor rules that the Commission from time to time may issue, approve 
or otherwise establish.  
 
Final Offer: 
 
“Final Offer” shall mean the offer on which a resource was dispatched by the Office of the 
Interconnection for a particular clock hour for the Operating Day. 
 
Final RTO Unforced Capacity Obligation: 
 
“Final RTO Unforced Capacity Obligation” shall mean the capacity obligation for the PJM 
Region, determined in accordance with RAA, Schedule 8. 
 
Financial Close: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 9 
“Financial Close” shall mean the Capacity Market Seller has demonstrated that the Capacity 
Market Seller or its agent has completed the act of executing the material contracts and/or other 
documents necessary to (1) authorize construction of the project and (2) establish the necessary 
funding for the project under the control of an independent third-party entity.  A sworn, notarized 
certification of an independent engineer certifying to such facts, and that the engineer has 
personal knowledge of, or has engaged in a diligent inquiry to determine, such facts, shall be 
sufficient to make such demonstration.  For resources that do not have external financing, 
Financial Close shall mean the project has full funding available, and that the project has been 
duly authorized to proceed with full construction of the material portions of the project by the 
appropriate governing body of the company funding such project.  A sworn, notarized 
certification by an officer of such company certifying to such facts, and that the officer has 
personal knowledge of, or has engaged in a diligent inquiry to determine, such facts, shall be 
sufficient to make such demonstration. 
 
Financial Default: 
 
“Financial Default” shall mean (a) the failure of a Member or Transmission Customer to make 
any payment for obligations under the Agreements when due, including but not limited to an 
invoice payment that has not been cured or remedied after notice has been given and any cure 
period has elapsed, (b) a bankruptcy proceeding filed by a Member, Transmission Customer or 
its Guarantor, or filed against a Member, Transmission Customer or its Guarantor and to which 
the Member, Transmission Customer or Guarantor, as applicable, acquiesces or that is not 
dismissed within 60 days, (c) a Member, Transmission Customer or its Guarantor, if any, is 
unable to meet its financial obligations as they become due, or (d) a Merger Without Assumption 
occurs in respect of the Member, Transmission Customer or any Guarantor of such Member or 
Transmission Customer. 
 
Financial Transmission Right: 
 
“Financial Transmission Right” or “FTR” shall mean a right to receive Transmission Congestion 
Credits as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.2 and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.2.2. 
 
Financial Transmission Right Obligation: 
 
“Financial Transmission Right Obligation” shall mean a right to receive Transmission 
Congestion Credits as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.2(b), and the 
parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.2.2(b). 
 
Financial Transmission Right Option: 
 
“Financial Transmission Right Option” shall mean a right to receive Transmission Congestion 
Credits as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.2(c), and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.2.2(c). 
 
Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 10 
 
“Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service” shall mean Transmission Service under the Tariff 
that is reserved and/or scheduled between specified Points of Receipt and Delivery pursuant to 
Tariff, Part II. 
 
Firm Transmission Feasibility Study: 
 
“Firm Transmission Feasibility Study” shall mean a study conducted by the Transmission 
Provider in accordance with Tariff, Part II, section 19.3 and Tariff, Part III, section 32.3. 
 
Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights: 
 
“Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights” shall mean the rights to schedule energy and capacity 
withdrawals from a Point of Interconnection of a Merchant Transmission Facility with the 
Transmission System. Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights may be awarded only to a 
Merchant D.C. Transmission Facility that connects the Transmission System with another 
control area. Withdrawals scheduled using Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights have rights 
similar to those under Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service. 
 
First Incremental Auction: 
 
“First Incremental Auction” shall mean an Incremental Auction conducted 20 months prior to the 
start of the Delivery Year to which it relates. 
 
Flexible Resource:   
“Flexible Resource” shall mean a generating resource that must have a combined Start-up Time 
and Notification Time of less than or equal to two hours; and a Minimum Run Time of less than 
or equal to two hours.   
Forecast Pool Requirement: 
 
“Forecast Pool Requirement” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement.  
 
Foreign Guaranty: 
 
“Foreign Guaranty” shall mean a Corporate Guaranty provided by an Affiliate of a Participant 
that is domiciled in a foreign country, and meets all of the provisions of Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Form 715 Planning Criteria: 
 
“Form 715 Planning Criteria” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating 
Agreement. 
 
Forward Daily Natural Gas Prices: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 11 
“Forward Daily Natural Gas Prices” shall have the meaning provided in Tariff, Attachment DD, 
section 5.10(a)(v-1)(E).  
 
Forward Hourly Ancillary Services Prices: 
 
“Forward Hourly Ancillary Services Prices” shall have the meaning provided in Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.10(a)(v-1)(D).  
 
Forward Hourly LMPs:  
 
“Forward Hourly LMPs” shall have the meaning provided in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 
5.10(a)(v-1)(C). 
 
FTR Credit Limit:  
 
“FTR Credit Limit” shall mean the amount of credit established with PJMSettlement that an FTR 
Participant has specifically designated to be used for FTR activity in a specific customer account.  
Any such credit so set aside shall not be considered available to satisfy any other credit 
requirement the FTR Participant may have with PJMSettlement. 
 
FTR Credit Requirement: 
 
“FTR Credit Requirement” shall mean the amount of credit that a Participant must provide in 
order to support the FTR positions that it holds and/or for which it is bidding.  The FTR Credit 