SCHEDULE 3 
Regulation and Frequency Response Service 
 
Regulation and Frequency Response Service is necessary to provide for the continuous balancing 
of resources with load and for maintaining scheduled Interconnection frequency at 60 cycles per 
second (60 Hz).  Regulation and Frequency Response Service is accomplished by committing 
resources whose output is raised or lowered (predominantly through the use of automatic 
generating control equipment) and by other non-generation resources capable of providing this 
service as necessary to follow the moment-by-moment changes in load.  The obligation to 
maintain this balance between resources and load lies with the Transmission Provider.  The 
Transmission Provider must offer this service when the transmission service is used to serve load 
within its Control Area.  The Transmission Customer must either purchase this service from the 
Transmission Provider or make alternative comparable arrangements to satisfy its Regulation 
and Frequency Response Service obligation.  The Transmission Provider will take into account 
the speed and accuracy of Regulation resources in its determination of Regulation and Frequency 
Response reserve requirements, including as it reviews whether a self-supplying Transmission 
Customer has made alternative comparable arrangements.  Upon request by the self-supplying 
Transmission Customer, the Transmission Provider will share with the Transmission Customer 
its reasoning and any related data used to make the determination of whether the Transmission 
Customer has made alternative comparable arrangements. The amount of and charges for 
Regulation and Frequency Response Service are set forth below.  The Transmission Provider 
shall administer the purchases of Regulation Service in the PJM Interchange Energy Market.  
PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the purchases by customers of Regulation Service in 
the PJM Interchange Energy Market; provided however, that PJMSettlement shall not be the 
contracting party to bilateral transactions between market participants or with respect to a self-
schedule or self-supply of resources by a customer to satisfy its Regulation obligation.   
 
For Regulation not satisfied by individual Transmission Owners on behalf of their Native Load 
Customers, Network Customers or other Transmission Customers serving load in the PJM 
Region, the Transmission Provider will order the lowest cost alternative for Regulation in service 
as needed to meet the Regulation Requirements of each Regulation Zone (as may be set forth in 
the PJM Manuals and as specified below: 
 
a. Regulation shall be supplied to meet the Regulation objective of a Regulation Zone from 
resources located within the metered electrical boundaries of such Regulation Zone.  Resources 
offering Regulation shall comply with applicable standards and requirements for Regulation 
capability and dispatch specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
b. The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain and maintain an amount of Regulation for 
each Regulation Zone equal to the Regulation objective for such Regulation Zone, as specified in 
the PJM Manuals. 
 
c. The Regulation range of a resource shall be at least twice the amount of Regulation 
assigned. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 3 
Effective Date: 10/1/2025 - Docket #: ER24-1772-000 - Page 2 
d. A resource capable of automatic energy dispatch that is also providing Regulation shall 
have its energy dispatch range reduced from the Regulation range by at least twice the amount of 
the Regulation provided with consideration of the Regulation limits of the resource, as specified 
in the PJM Manuals. 
 
e. Qualified Regulation resources must satisfy the measurement and verification tests 
described in the PJM Manuals. 
 
f. A Transmission Owner, Network Customer or other Transmission Customer may satisfy 
its Regulation obligation from its own resources capable of performing Regulation service, by 
contractual arrangements with others able to provide Regulation service on a comparable basis, 
or by purchases from the PJM Regulation market.  
 
g. The Office of the Interconnection shall obtain Regulation service from the least-cost 
alternatives available from either pool-scheduled or self-scheduled resources as needed to meet 
Regulation Zone requirements not otherwise satisfied by a Transmission Owner, Network 
Customer or other Transmission Customer, in accordance with Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 1.11.4(b). 
 
h. The Office of the Interconnection shall dispatch resources for Regulation by sending 
Regulation signals and instructions to resources from which Regulation service has been 
committed, in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  Those resources shall comply with Regulation 
dispatch signals and instructions transmitted by the Office of the Interconnection and, in the 
event of conflict, Regulation dispatch signals and instructions shall take precedence over energy 
dispatch signals and instructions.  Those providing Regulation shall exert all reasonable efforts to 
operate, or ensure the operation of, their resources supplying load in the PJM Region as close to 
desired output levels as practical, consistent with Good Utility Practice. 
 
i. Each Transmission Owner (on behalf of its Native Load Customers), Network Customer 
or other Transmission Customer serving load within a Regulation Zone shall have an hourly 
Regulation objective equal to its pro rata share of the Regulation Requirement of such 
Regulation Zone for such hour, based on the entity’s total load (net of operating Behind The 
Meter Generation, but not to be less than zero) in such Regulation Zone for such hour. 
 
j. An entity supplying Regulation at the direction of the Office of the Interconnection in 
excess of its hourly Regulation obligation shall be credited for each increment of such 
Regulation at the price specified in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2.2 and Tariff, 
