[SCHEDULE 12 - Part 1 of 18]

SCHEDULE 12 
Transmission Enhancement Charges 
 
(a) Establishment of Transmission Enhancement Charges.   
 
 (i) Establishment of Transmission Enhancement Charges by Transmission 
Owners and Entities That Will Become Transmission Owners.  One or more of the 
Transmission Owners may be designated to construct and own and/or finance Required 
Transmission Enhancements by (1) the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan periodically 
developed pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6 or (2) any joint planning or 
coordination agreement between PJM and another region or transmission planning authority set 
forth in Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix B (“Appendix B Agreement”) (collectively, for purposes 
of this Schedule 12 only, “Regional Transmission Expansion Plan”).  Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 6, section 1.7 recognizes that Transmission Owners, subject to obtaining any necessary 
regulatory approvals, may seek to recover the costs of Required Transmission Enhancements and 
obligates PJMSettlement to collect on behalf of Transmission Owner(s) any charges established 
by Transmission Owners to recover the costs of Required Transmission Enhancements.  If a 
Transmission Owner is designated by the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to construct 
and own and/or finance a Required Transmission Enhancement, such Transmission Owner may 
choose any of the following cost recovery mechanisms, subject to the crediting procedures set 
forth in section (e) below:  
 
(1) Decline to seek to recover the costs of Required Transmission Enhancements 
from customers until such time as it makes a filing pursuant to Section 205 of the Federal 
Power Act to revise its Network Integration Transmission Service rates; 
 
(2)  Make a filing pursuant Section 205 of the Federal Power Act and the FERC’s 
rules and regulations to establish the revenue requirement with respect to a Required 
Transmission Enhancement, without filing to revise its rates for Network Integration 
Transmission Service generally; or 
 
(3)  Establish the revenue requirement with respect to a Required Transmission 
Enhancement through the operation of a formula rate in effect applicable to its rates for 
Network Integration Transmission Service. 
 
A charge established to recover the revenue requirement with respect to a Required Transmission 
Enhancement is hereafter referred to as a “Transmission Enhancement Charge.”  Transmission 
Enhancement Charges of one or more Transmission Owners for Required Transmission 
Enhancements shall be established in accordance with this Schedule 12.    
 
 (ii) Establishment of Transmission Enhancement Charges With Respect to 
Required Transmission Enhancements Constructed by Entities in Another Region. The 
revenue requirement with respect to a Required Transmission Enhancement constructed pursuant 
to an Appendix B Agreement in another region by an entity designated by such other region shall 
be governed by the tariffs or agreements in effect in such region. Transmission Enhancement 
Charges to recover the costs of such Required Transmission Enhancement for which PJM is 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 2 
responsible shall be determined in accordance with this Schedule 12.  Other than with respect to 
a Required Transmission Enhancement constructed pursuant to an Appendix B Agreement, no 
PJM Network or Transmission Customer will bear cost responsibility for any required 
transmission upgrades in another region as a consequence of a Required Transmission 
Enhancement included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan.   
 
 (iii) Transmission Facilities Not Eligible for Cost Responsibility Assignment.  Any 
alternating current (“A.C.”) facilities or direct current (“D.C.”) facilities that are Attachment 
Facilities, Local Upgrades, Merchant Network Upgrades, Merchant Transmission Facilities, 
Network Upgrades, Supplemental Projects, or any other Transmission Facilities that operate or 
are planned to be operated in a manner that requires customers to subscribe to transmission 
service over such facilities or to a portion of the electric capability of such facilities shall not be 
eligible for cost responsibility assignment pursuant to this Schedule 12.   
 
 (iv) Entities Not Yet Eligible to Become Transmission Owners.  For purposes of 
this Schedule 12 only, the term, “Transmission Owner,” shall include any entity that undertakes 
to construct and own and/or finance a Required Transmission Enhancement pursuant to a 
designation in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to construct and own and/or finance 
such Required Transmission Enhancement, even if such entity is not yet eligible to become a 
party to the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement.  Nothing in the PJM Tariff nor the 
Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement shall prevent an entity that undertakes to 
construct and own and/or finance a Required Transmission Enhancement pursuant to a 
designation in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to construct and own and/or finance 
such Required Transmission Enhancement from recovering the costs of such Required 
Transmission Enhancement through this Schedule 12. 
 
 (v) Effective Date.  The assignment of cost responsibility or classification of 
Required Transmission Enhancements either (1) made by the Transmission Provider prior to 
February 1, 2013, or (2) applicable to Required Transmission Enhancements approved by the 
PJM Board pursuant to Operating Agreement, section 1.6 prior to February 1, 2013 are set forth 
in Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix.  Except as specifically set forth herein, nothing in this 
Schedule 12 shall change the assignment of cost responsibility or classification of Required 
Transmission Enhancements included in Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix.  The assignment of cost 
responsibility or classification of all other Required Transmission Enhancements shall be set 
forth in Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix A.  
 
 
(b) Designation of Customers Subject to Transmission Enhancement Charges.   
 
 (i) Regional Facilities and Necessary Lower Voltage Facilities.  Transmission 
Provider shall assign cost responsibility on a region-wide basis for Required Transmission 
Enhancements included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan that (1) (a) are A.C. 
facilities that operate at or above 500 kV; (b) constitute a single Required Transmission 
Enhancement comprising two A.C. circuits operating at or above 345 kV and below 500 kV, 
where both circuits originate from a single substation or switching station at one end and 
terminate at a single substation or switching station at the other end, regardless of whether or not 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 3 
the two circuits are routed in the same right-of-way (“Double-circuit 345 kV Required 
Transmission Enhancement”); (c) are A.C. or D.C. shunt reactive resources (such as capacitors, 
static var compensators, static synchronous condenser (STATCON), synchronous condensers, 
inductors, other shunt devices, or their equivalent) connected to a Transmission Facility 
described in clause (a) or (b) of this subsection, or (d) are D.C. facilities meeting the criteria set 
forth in subsection (b)(i)(D) (collectively, “Regional Facilities”), or (2) new A.C. Transmission 
Facilities or expansions or enhancements to existing Transmission Facilities that operate below 
500 kV (or 345 kV in the case of a Regional Facility described in clause (1)(b) of this 
subsection) or new D.C. Transmission Facilities that do not meet the criteria of subsection 
(b)(i)(D) that must be constructed or strengthened to support new Regional Facilities, based on 
the planning criteria used by the Transmission Provider in developing the applicable Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan (“Necessary Lower Voltage Facilities”) as follows:  
 
  (A) Cost responsibility for Regional Facilities and Necessary Lower Voltage 
Facilities shall be allocated among Responsible Customers as defined in this Schedule 12 as 
follows: 
 
   (1) Fifty percent (50%) shall be assigned annually on a load-ratio 
share basis as follows: 
    (a) With respect to each Zone, using, consistent with Tariff, 
Part III, section 34.1, the applicable zonal loads at the time of such Zone’s annual peak load from 
the 12-month period ending October 31 preceding the calendar year for which the annual cost 
responsibility allocation is determined; and 
    (b) With respect to Merchant Transmission Facilities, (1) for 
the calendar year following the year in which it initiates operation, the actually awarded Firm 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights associated with its existing Merchant Transmission Facility; 
and (2) for all subsequent calendar years, the annual peak load of the Merchant Transmission 
Facility (not to exceed its actual Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights) from the 12-month 
period ending October 31 of the calendar year preceding the calendar year for which the annual 
cost responsibility allocation is determined. 
(2) Fifty percent (50%) shall be assigned as follows: 
    (a) In the case of a Required Transmission Enhancement 
included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to address one or more reliability 
violations or to address operational adequacy and performance issues (collectively, “Reliability 
Project”), in accordance with the distribution factor (“DFAX”) analysis described in subsection 
(b)(iii) or the analysis applicable to Regional Facilities that address stability issues described in 
subsection (b)(xviii) of this Schedule 12 as applicable; and 
    (b) In the case of a Required Transmission Enhancement 
included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to relieve one or more economic 
constraints as described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.7(b)(iii) (“Economic 
Project”), in accordance with the methodology described in subsection (b)(v) of this Schedule 
12. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 4 
  (B) (1) Except for transformers that are an integral component of a Regional 
Facility, transformers connected to Lower Voltage Facilities, as defined in section (b)(ii) of this 
Schedule 12, shall not be considered Regional Facilities or Necessary Lower Voltage Facilities; 
and (2) Transmission Facilities that are not Regional Facilities and deliver energy from a 
Regional Facility to load shall not be considered Necessary Lower Voltage Facilities. 
  
  (C) With respect Required Transmission Enhancements that qualify as 
Regional Facilities under subsection (b)(i)(1)(b) or subsection (b)(i)(D)(2) of this Schedule 12: 
 
   (1) where the Required Transmission Enhancement includes both new 
Transmission Facilities and pre-existing Transmission Facilities, cost responsibility under this 
section (b)(i) shall apply only to the cost of the new Transmission Facilities plus the original cost 
less accumulated depreciation of pre-existing Transmission Facilities that are included in Tariff, 
Schedule 12-Appendix or Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix A; 
   (2) cost responsibility shall be assigned under this section (b)(i) only 
after the Required Transmission Enhancement goes into service as a Double-circuit 345 kV 
Required Transmission Enhancement or a Double-circuit D.C. Required Transmission 
Enhancement; and  
   (3) cost responsibility shall be assigned under this section (b)(i) for 
any CWIP permitted to be recovered before the Required Transmission Enhancement goes into 
service only after such Transmission Facilities are approved in a Regional Transmission 
Expansion Plan as a Double-circuit 345 kV Required Transmission Enhancement or a Double-
circuit D.C. Required Transmission Enhancement. 
  (D) A Required Transmission Enhancement included in the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan that is a D.C. facility, consisting of D.C. lines (i.e., wires or 
cables) and A.C./D.C. converters, shall be a Regional Facility only if:  
   (1)  such D.C. facility comprises two poles and operates at a voltage of 
±433 kV D.C. or above; or 
   (2) such D.C. Facility constitutes a single Required Transmission 
Enhancement comprising two D.C. circuits where (i) both circuits originate from a single 
substation or switching station at one end and terminate at a single substation or switching 
station at the other end, regardless of whether or not both circuits are routed in the same right-of-
way, and (ii) each such circuit consists of two poles and operates at a voltage of ±298 kV D.C or 
above (“Double-circuit D.C. Required Transmission Enhancement”). 
 (ii) Lower Voltage Facilities.  Transmission Provider shall assign cost responsibility 
for Required Transmission Enhancements that (a) are not Regional Facilities; and (b) are not 
“Necessary Lower Voltage Facilities” as defined in section(b)(i) of this Schedule 12 (collectively 
“Lower Voltage Facilities”), as follows: 
 
  (A) If the Lower Voltage Facility is a Reliability Project,  Transmission 
Provider shall use the DFAX analysis described in subsection (b)(iii) or the analysis applicable to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 5 
Regional Facilities that address stability issues described in subsection (b)(xviii) of this Schedule 
12 as applicable; and 
  (B) If the Lower Voltage Facility is an Economic Project, Transmission 
Provider shall use the methodology described in subsection (b)(v) of this Schedule 12. 
 
 (iii) DFAX Analysis for Reliability Projects.   
(A)  For purposes of the assignment of cost responsibility for Reliability Projects 
under subsection (b)(i)(A)(2)(a) and subsection (b)(ii)(A) of this Schedule 12, the Transmission 
Provider, based on a computer model of the electric network and using power flow modeling 
software, shall calculate distribution factors, represented as decimal values or percentages, which 
express the portions of a transfer of energy from a defined source to a defined sink that will flow 
across a particular transmission facility or group of transmission facilities.  These distribution 
factors represent a measure of the use by the load of each Zone or Merchant Transmission 
Facility (collectively, “Responsible Zone”) of the Required Transmission Enhancement, as 
determined by a power flow analysis.  In general, a distribution factor can be represented as: 
 
Distribution Factor = (After-shift power flow – pre-shift power flow) / Total amount of power 
shifted 
 
Total amount of power shifted = Modeled incremental megawatt transfer to a given Load 
Deliverability Area or Merchant Transmission Facility 
 
Pre-shift power flow = Megawatt flow over the Required Transmission Enhancement  
before the incremental megawatt transfer 
 
After-shift power flow = Megawatt flow over the Required Transmission Enhancement 
after the incremental megawatt transfer 
 
When calculating such distribution factors: 
 
   (1) All distribution factors are calculated with respect to the Required 
Transmission Enhancement subject to cost allocation under subsection (b)(i)(A)(2)(a) and 
subsection (b)(ii)(A) of this Schedule 12. 
 
   (2) The calculation of distribution factors shall be determined using 
linear matrix algebra, such that distribution factors represent the ratio of (i) a change in megawatt 
flow on a Required Transmission Enhancement to (ii) a change in megawatts transferred to 
aggregate load within a Zone or, in the case of a Merchant Transmission Facility, the point of 
withdrawal associated with Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights over such Merchant 
Transmission Facility. 
 
   (3) With respect to a Merchant Transmission Facility, zonal peak load 
shall mean (i) the existing Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights of the Merchant Transmission 
Facility being evaluated, if the Merchant Transmission Facility is in service, or (ii) for a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 6 
Merchant Transmission Facility that is not yet in service, the planned Firm Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights of the Merchant Transmission Facility being evaluated as identified in the 
Interconnection Service Agreement in effect for such Merchant Transmission Facility.  
 
   (4) In the DFAX analysis, when Transmission Provider models a 
transfer from generation to all load within an individual Zone, Transmission Provider shall 
model the transfer to the Zone as a whole (not on a bus-by-bus basis).   
 
   (5) In the DFAX analysis, Transmission Provider shall model 
generation both external and internal to individual Responsible Zones to reflect (a) the 
boundaries of Locational Deliverability Areas (“LDAs”), and (b) limitations with respect to the 
reliability objective for moving generation capacity across the transmission system.  
Transmission Provider shall adopt the Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective (“CETO”), 
associated with that LDA and calculated for the applicable planning year to be the transfer 
limitation into the LDA.  In modeling the system generation and load, Transmission Provider 
shall assume that the percentage of the zonal load in the LDA served by external (or internal) 
generation to the LDA shall equal the ratio of (i) the CETO associated within that LDA (or 
generation internal with the LDA) to (ii) the sum of (a) the internal generation within the LDA 
and (b) the CETO associated with that LDA.  For the generation dispatch used in calculating the 
distribution factor, Transmission Provider shall distribute these amounts of external/internal 
generation among all generation in the PJM Region external to/internal within the LDA, 
respectively, in proportion to their capacity.  For Responsible Zones that are located within 
LDAs that are also entirely contained in other larger LDAs, the modeling approach and 
distribution factor calculations shall be repeated for such Responsible Zones for each LDA.  The 
lowest distribution factor derived from these calculations shall be applied to the Responsible 
Zone in the calculation of the use of the Required Transmission Enhancement.   
 
   (6) Except as provided in this subsection, no cost responsibility shall 
be assigned to a Responsible Zone unless the magnitude of the distribution factor is greater than 
or equal to 0.01, and any distribution factor of a smaller magnitude shall be set equal to zero.  
This rule shall not apply to the Zone(s) in which the Required Transmission Enhancement is 
located, which shall be assigned cost responsibility based on its distribution factor, regardless of 
the magnitude.   
 
  (B)  The DFAX analysis will be performed in accordance with the following 
steps: 
 
   (1) Transmission Provider shall calculate a distribution factor and a 
direction of use for each Responsible Zone by modeling a transfer from all generation in the PJM 
Region to each Responsible Zone.  To establish the use by a Responsible Zone, in megawatts, of 
a Required Transmission Enhancement, the distribution factor of a Required Transmission 
Enhancement associated with the resulting transfer modeled by the Transmission Provider to 
each Responsible Zone shall be multiplied by the Responsible Zone’s peak load. 
 
   (2) The Transmission Provider shall separately determine the relative 
use of the Required Transmission Enhancement by each Responsible Zone in each direction by 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 7 
dividing the megawatts of use by each Responsible Zone determined in section (iii)(B)(1) above 
by the total use of all Responsible Zones using the Required Transmission Enhancement in the 
same direction of use. 
 
   (3)  Transmission Provider shall determine the direction of use 
percentage of the Required Transmission Enhancement in each direction using a production cost 
analysis to determine the total use, in megawatt-hours, of the Required Transmission 
Enhancement by all Zones and Merchant Transmission Facilities in each direction over the 
course of a year.  The Transmission Provider shall calculate the percentage use in each direction 
by dividing the megawatt-hours of use in each direction by total use in megawatt-hours in both 
directions of use. 
 
   (4) The Transmission Provider shall multiply the relative use by each 
Responsible Zone of the Required Transmission Enhancement in each direction of use 
determined in section (iii)(B)(2) above, by the applicable direction of use percentage determined 
in section (iii)(B)(3) above.  
 
   (5) The products of the calculation performed in section (iii)(B)(4) 
above, shall determine the relative allocation to each Responsible Zone of cost responsibility for 
the Required Transmission Enhancement. 
 
  (C) In the DFAX analysis, the Zones of Public Service Electric and Gas 
Company and Rockland Electric Company will be treated as one Zone unless and until Rockland 
Electric Company elects to be treated as a separate Zone in accordance with the terms of the 
Settlement Agreement And Offer Of Partial Settlement approved by FERC in Docket Nos. 
ER06-456-000, et al. 
 
  (D) Transmission Provider shall round cost responsibility assignments 
determined using the DFAX analysis described in subsection (b)(iii) of this Schedule 12 to the 
nearest one-hundredth of one percent. 
 
  (E) Transmission Provider shall not account for the ability to adjust use of 
phase angle regulators (“PARs”) in the DFAX analysis described in subsection (b)(iii) of this 
Schedule 12.  In the DFAX analysis, all PAR angles shall be fixed at their base case settings.  
 
  (F) In the DFAX analysis, if the Required Transmission Enhancement is a 
D.C. facility, the Transmission Provider shall determine cost responsibility assignment as 
follows: 
 
   (1) The Required Transmission Enhancement shall be replaced in the 
model with a comparable proxy A.C. facility, the impedance of which shall be calculated based 
on the length of the D.C. facility that was removed from the model multiplied by an approximate 
per unit/mile impedance value for the proxy A.C. facility. 
 
   (2) Where a D.C. facility is an integral part of a Required 
Transmission Enhancement that also includes A.C. facilities, the methodology described in 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 8 
subsection (b)(iii)(F)(1) above shall be used only for the D.C. facility segment of such Required 
Transmission Enhancement. 
 
   (3) A D.C. facility used to control flow over portions of the 
Transmission System shall be modeled with a zero impedance and no control shall be applied. 
 
  (G) If Transmission Provider determines in its reasonable engineering judgment 
that, as a result of applying the provisions in section (b)(iii) of this Schedule 12, the DFAX 
analysis cannot be performed or that the results of such DFAX analysis are objectively 
unreasonable, the Transmission Provider may use an appropriate substitute proxy for the 
Required Transmission Enhancement in conducting the DFAX analysis.  If a proxy is used that is 
not specified in this Schedule 12, Transmission Provider shall state in a written report (a) the 
reasons why it determined the DFAX analysis could not be performed or that the results of the 
DFAX analysis were objectively unreasonable; (b) why the substitute proxy produced 
objectively reasonable results; and (3) a recommendation as to what changes, if any, should be 
considered in conducting the DFAX analysis. 
   
  (H) The Transmission Provider shall make a preliminary cost responsibility 
determination for each Required Transmission Enhancement subject to section (b)(iii) of this 
Schedule 12 at the time such Required Transmission Enhancement is included in the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan.   
 
   (1)  When CWIP in connection with a Required Transmission 
Enhancement subject to this section (b)(iii) of this Schedule 12 is entitled to be recovered, the 
preliminary determination of cost responsibility made at the time that the Required Transmission 
Enhancement was included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan shall be used to assign 
cost responsibility for such CWIP and such cost responsibility shall remain unchanged until the 
date the Required Transmission Enhancement goes into service.  Once a Required Transmission 
Enhancement has gone into service, the updated cost responsibility determination provided for in 
subsection (b)(iii)(H)(2) below shall apply. 
 
   (2) Beginning with the calendar year in which a Required 
Transmission Enhancement is scheduled to enter service, and thereafter annually at the 
beginning of each calendar year, the Transmission Provider shall update the preliminary cost 
responsibility determination for each Required Transmission Enhancement using the values and 
inputs used in the base case of the most recent Regional Transmission Expansion Plan approved 
by the PJM Board prior to the date of the update.  All values and inputs used in the calculation of 
the distribution factor in a determination of cost responsibility shall be the same values and 
inputs as used in the base case of the most recent Regional Transmission Expansion Plan 
approved by the PJM Board prior to the determination of cost responsibility.   
 
 (iv) Spare Parts, Replacement Equipment And Circuit Breakers.  Transmission 
Provider shall assign cost responsibility for spare parts, replacement equipment, and circuit 
breakers and associated equipment, included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan as 
follows: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 9 
  (A)  Spare parts that are part of the design specifications of a Required 
Transmission Enhancement at the time such Required Transmission Enhancement is first 
included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan shall be considered part of the Required 
Transmission Enhancement for the purpose of applying the cost threshold described in 
subsection (b)(vi) of this Schedule 12 and cost responsibility for such spare parts shall be 
assigned in the same manner as the Required Transmission Enhancement.  Cost responsibility for 
spare parts independently included the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan and not a part of 
the design specifications of a Required Transmission Enhancement as described above in this 
subsection shall be assigned to the Zone of the owner of the spare part, if the owner of the spare 
part is a Transmission Owner listed in Tariff, Attachment J.  If the owner of the spare part is not 
a Transmission Owner listed in Tariff, Attachment J, cost responsibility shall be assigned on a 
pro rata basis to the zones that bear cost responsibility for the owner’s Required Transmission 
Enhancements. 
 
  (B)  Replacement equipment that is part of the design specifications of a 
Required Transmission Enhancement at the time the Required Transmission Enhancement is first 
included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan shall be considered part of the Required 
Transmission Enhancement for the purpose of applying the cost threshold described in section 
(b)(vi) of this Schedule 12 and cost responsibility for such replacement equipment shall be 
assigned in the same manner as the Required Transmission Enhancement.  Cost responsibility for 
Required Transmission Enhancement replacement equipment independently included in the 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan and not a part of the design specifications of a Required 
Transmission Enhancement as described above in this subsection, shall be assigned to the same 
Zones and/or Merchant Transmission Facilities and in the same proportions as the then-existing 
assignments of cost responsibility for the facilities that the replacement equipment is replacing. 
 
  (C)  Circuit breakers and associated equipment that are part of the design 
specifications of a Required Transmission Enhancement at the time the Required Transmission 
Enhancement is first included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan shall be considered 
part of the Required Transmission Enhancement for the purpose of applying the cost threshold 
described in subsection (b)(vi) of this Schedule 12 and cost responsibility for such circuit 
breakers and associated equipment shall be assigned in the same manner as the Required 
Transmission Enhancement.  Cost responsibility for circuit breakers and associated equipment 
independently included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan and not a part of the design 
specifications of a transmission element of a  Required Transmission Enhancement as described 
above in this subsection, shall be assigned to the Zone of the owner of the circuit breaker and 
associated equipment if the owner of the circuit breaker is a Transmission Owner listed in Tariff, 
Attachment J.  If the owner of the circuit breaker is not a Transmission Owner listed in Tariff, 
Attachment J, cost responsibility shall be assigned on a pro rata basis to the zones that bear cost 
responsibility for the owner’s Required Transmission Enhancements.  
 
 (v) Economic Projects.  Transmission Provider shall assign (i) fifty percent (50%) of 
cost responsibility for Economic Projects that are Regional Facilities; and (ii) full cost 
responsibility for Economic Projects that are Lower Voltage Facilities; as follows: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 10 
  (A) Transmission Provider shall assign cost responsibility for Economic 
Projects that are accelerations of Reliability Projects as described in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 6, section 1.5.7(b)(i) (“Acceleration Projects”) by performing and comparing (1) a 
DFAX analysis consistent with the methodology described in subsection (b)(iii) of this Schedule 
12, and (2) a methodology that is intended to act as a proxy for expected economic benefits from 
reduced Locational Marginal Prices (“LMP Benefit”) over the period that the reliability-based 
enhancement or expansion is to be accelerated (“LMP Benefits Methodology”).  The LMP 
Benefits Methodology shall determine cost responsibility assignment percentages to Zones and 
Merchant Transmission Facilities in the following manner.  The LMP Benefit to a Zone shall be 
deemed to be equal to the reduction in Locational Marginal Price payments made by Load 
Serving Entities as a result of the Acceleration Project assuming the customers purchase all 
energy needs from the PJM Interchange Energy Market, and LMP Benefits so calculated shall be 
converted into percentage cost responsibility assignments for the affected Zones.  The LMP 
Benefits Methodology shall not incorporate the financial effects of allocations of Auction 
Revenue Rights or Financial Transmission Rights.  The LMP Benefit to a Merchant 
Transmission Facility shall be deemed to be equal to the proportionate share of assigned cost 
responsibility using the DFAX analysis and the assignments of cost responsibility to other Zones 
in the LMP Benefits Methodology shall be proportionately adjusted, as necessary, to reflect this 
treatment of Merchant Transmission Facilities to ensure that the total allocation for any 
economic-based Required Transmission Enhancement equals one hundred percent.  If, after 
performing both analyses and comparing the percentage cost responsibility assignments for the 
affected Zones calculated pursuant to the DFAX analysis and the LMP Benefits Methodology, 
the results do not indicate at least a ten percentage point cost responsibility assignment 
differential between the two methods for any Zone, cost responsibility for the Acceleration 
Project shall be assigned using the DFAX analysis.  If, after performing both analyses and 
comparing the percentage cost responsibility assignments for the affected Zones calculated 
pursuant to the DFAX analysis and LMP Benefits Methodology, the results indicate at least a ten 
percentage point cost responsibility assignment differential between the DFAX analysis and the 
LMP Benefits Methodology for any Zone, cost responsibility for the Acceleration Project for the 
period of time the Reliability Project is accelerated (i.e. the period between the date the 
Reliability Project actually goes into service and the date the Reliability Project originally was 
scheduled to go in service in the PJM Board approved Regional Transmission Expansion Plan) 
shall be assigned using the LMP Benefits Methodology.  For all periods other than the period of 
time the Reliability Project is accelerated, cost responsibility for such an Acceleration Project 
shall be assigned in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule 12 governing the assignment 
of cost responsibility of Regional Facility Reliability Projects or Lower Voltage Facility 
Reliability Projects, as applicable.   
 
  (B) Transmission Provider shall assign cost responsibility for Economic 
Projects that are modifications to Reliability Projects as described in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 6, section 1.5.7(b)(ii) in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule 12 governing 
the assignment of cost responsibility of Regional Facility Reliability Projects or Lower Voltage 
Facility Reliability Projects, as applicable. 
 
  (C) Transmission Provider shall assign cost responsibility for Economic 
Projects that are new enhancements or expansions that could relieve one or more economic 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 11 
constraints as described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.7(b)(iii) to the Zones 
that show a decrease in the net present value of the Changes in Load Energy Payment.  The 
Change in Load Energy Payment for each year shall be determined using the methodology set 
forth in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.7(d) for the period specified in that 
section.  Cost responsibility shall be assigned based on each Zone’s pro rata share of the sum of 
the net present values of the Changes in Load Energy Payment only of the Zones in which the 
net present value of the Changes in Load Energy Payment shows a decrease. 
 
(vi) Required Transmission Enhancements Costing Less Than $5 Million.   
Notwithstanding sections (b)(i), (b)(ii), (b)(iv) and (b)(v) of this Schedule 12, cost responsibility 
for a Required Transmission Enhancement for which the good faith estimate of the cost of the 
Required Transmission Enhancement (a) prepared in connection with the development of the 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan and (b) provided to the PJM Board at the time the 
Required Transmission Enhancement is included for the first time in the Regional Transmission 
Expansion Plan, does not equal or exceed $5 million shall be assigned to the Zone where the 
Required Transmission Enhancement is to be located.  The determination of whether the 
estimated cost of a Required Transmission Enhancement does not equal or exceed $5 million 
shall be based solely on such good faith estimate of the cost of the Required Transmission 
Enhancement regardless of the actual costs incurred.  The estimated cost of a Required 
Transmission Enhancement shall include the aggregate estimated costs of all of the transmission 
elements approved by the PJM Board at the time such elements are included in the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan that collectively are intended (i) in the case of a Reliability Project, 
to resolve a specific reliability criteria violation, or (ii) in the case of an Economic Project, 
provide a specific LMP Benefit.  Where a Required Transmission Enhancement subject to this 
section (b)(vi) consists of a single transmission element or multiple transmission elements that 
will be located in more than one Zone, each Zone shall be assigned cost responsibility for the 
transmission elements or portions of the transmission elements located in such Zone.  Merchant 
Transmission Facilities shall not be assigned cost responsibility for a Required Transmission 
Enhancement subject to this section (b)(vi). 
 
(vii)   Modifications of Required Transmission Enhancements.  Once a Required 
Transmission Enhancement is included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, any 
modification to such Required Transmission Enhancement that subsequently is included in the 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan as a separate Reliability or Economic Project shall be 
considered a separate and distinct Required Transmission Enhancement for purposes of cost 
responsibility assignment under this Schedule 12.  Except as provided in sections (b)(iv) and 
(b)(xiv) of this Schedule 12, any cost responsibility assignment that has been made for a 
previously approved Required Transmission Enhancement shall have no impact on the cost 
responsibility assignment of such modification. 
 
 (viii) FERC Filing.  Within 30 days of the approval of each Regional Transmission 
Expansion Plan or an addition to such plan by the PJM Board pursuant to Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 6, section 1.6, the Transmission Provider shall designate in the Tariff, Schedule 12-
Appendix A and in a report filed with the FERC the customers using Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service and/or Network Integration Transmission Service and Merchant 
Transmission Facility owners that will be subject to each such Transmission Enhancement 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 12 
Charge (“Responsible Customers”) based on the cost responsibility assignments determined 
pursuant to this Schedule 12.  Those customers designated by the Transmission Provider as 
Responsible Customers shall have 30 days from the date the filing is made with the FERC to 
seek review of such designation. Such cost responsibility designations shall be the same as those 
made for the relevant Regional Facility, Necessary Lower Voltage Facility, or Lower Voltage 
Facility in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan. 
 
 (ix) Regions With Which PJM Has Entered Into an Agreement Listed in 
Schedule 12-Appendix B .  For purposes of this Schedule 12, where costs of a Required 
Transmission Enhancement are allocated to a region other than PJM pursuant to an agreement set 
forth in Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix B, Responsible Customers for such costs shall be 
customers in such region. Cost responsibility with respect to the costs of a Required 
Transmission Enhancements  allocated to a region other than PJM shall be allocated within such 
region in accordance with the applicable tariff or agreement governing the allocation of such 
costs in such region. 
 
 (x) Merchant Transmission Facilities.  
 
  (A) For purposes of this Schedule 12, where the Transmission Provider has 
allocated all or a portion of a Required Transmission Enhancement to a Merchant Transmission 
Facility, the owner of the Merchant Transmission Facility shall be the Responsible Customer 
with respect to such Required Transmission Enhancement, and shall pay the Transmission 
Enhancement Charges associated with the Required Transmission Enhancement. 
 
  (B) (1) Transmission Provider shall defer collection of Transmission 
Enhancement Charges from a Merchant Transmission Facility until the Merchant Transmission 
Facility goes into commercial operation; provided, however, in the event the commercial 
operation of a Merchant Transmission Facility is delayed beyond the commercial operation 
milestone date(s) specified in the Interconnection Service Agreement associated with the 
Merchant Transmission Facility and the Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner 
constructing the Required Transmission Enhancement demonstrates that the Merchant 
Transmission Facility is responsible for such delay, Transmission Provider may begin collecting 
Transmission Enhancement Charges from the Merchant Transmission Facility prior to the 
Merchant Transmission Facility going into commercial operation.  Transmission Enhancement 
Charges allocated to a Merchant Transmission Facility for which collection is deferred in 
accordance with this section (b)(x)(B)(1) shall be recorded in appropriate Transmission Provider 
accounts for deferred charges and collected in accordance with section (b)(x)(B)(3) below.   
 
 (2) Transmission Provider shall base the collection of Transmission 
Enhancement Charges associated with Required Transmission Enhancements from a Merchant 
Transmission Facility on the actual Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights that have been 
awarded to the Merchant Transmission Facility; provided, however, to the extent that a Merchant 
Transmission Facility has been awarded less than the amount of Firm Transmission Withdrawal 
Rights specified in the Interconnection Service Agreement associated with the Merchant 
Transmission Facility, then Transmission Provider shall record the difference between the 
amount of Transmission Enhancement Charges collected based on the lesser amount of Firm 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 13 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights and the amount of Transmission Enhancement Charges based 
on the full amount of Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights specified in the applicable 
Interconnection Service Agreement in appropriate accounts for deferred charges and, after the 
Merchant Transmission Facility has been awarded the full amount of Firm Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights specified in the Interconnection Service Agreement, collect such deferred 
amounts in accordance with section (b)(x)(B)(3) below.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
Transmission Provider may collect Transmission Enhancement Charges based on more than a 
Merchant Transmission Facility’s actually awarded Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights (not 
to exceed the Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights specified in the applicable Interconnection 
Service Agreement) if the Transmission Provider or Transmission Owner demonstrates that the 
Merchant Transmission Facility is responsible for receiving fewer Firm Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights than are specified in the applicable Interconnection Service Agreement. 
 
   (3) Transmission Provider shall record: (i) in an appropriate deferred 
asset account, the Transmission Enhancement Charges associated with Required Transmission 
Enhancements for which collection is deferred in accordance with sections (b)(x)(B)(1) and 
(b)(x)(B)(2) above; and (ii) in an appropriate deferred liability account, the revenues associated 
with the Transmission Enhancement Charges that, absent the deferred charges, would have been 
due to Transmission Owners or to Transmission Owners’ customers as directed by the applicable 
Transmission Owner. At such time as collection of such deferred Transmission Enhancement 
Charges are permitted in accordance with sections (b)(x)(B)(1) and (b)(x)(B)(2) above, the 
deferred charges (along with appropriate interest) shall be collected from the Merchant 
Transmission Facility in equal installments over the twelve months following the 
commencement of the collection of the deferred charges. Such amounts shall be distributed to 
Transmission Owners or to Transmission Owners’ customers as directed by the applicable 
Transmission Owner, and the Transmission Provider shall make appropriate adjustments to the 
deferred asset and liability accounts.  Transmission Provider shall not be responsible for 
distributing revenues associated with deferred Transmission Enhancement Charges unless and 
until such charges are collected in accordance with this section (b)(x)(B), and uncollected 
deferred Transmission Enhancement Charges shall not be subject to Default Allocation 
Assessments to the Members pursuant to Operating Agreement, section 15.2. 
 
 (xi) Consolidated Edison Company of New York. (A) Cost responsibility 
assignments to Consolidated Edison Company of New York for Required Transmission 
Enhancements pursuant to this Schedule 12 with respect to the Firm Point-To-Point Service 
Agreements designated as Original Service Agreement No. 1873 and Original Service 
Agreement No. 1874 accepted by the Commission in Docket No. ER08-858 (“ConEd Service 
Agreements”) shall be in accordance with the terms and conditions of the settlement approved by 
the FERC in Docket No. ER08-858-000.  (B) All cost responsibility assignments for Required 
Transmission Enhancements pursuant to this Schedule 12 shall be adjusted at the commencement 
and termination of service under the ConEd Service Agreements to take account of the 
assignments under subsection (xi)(A) of this section.   
 
(xii) Public Policy Projects.   
 
(A) Transmission Facilities as defined in  Consolidated Transmission Owners 
Agreement, section 1.27 constructed by a Transmission Owner pursuant to a Public Policy 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 14 
Requirement but not included in a Regional Transmission Expansion Plan as a Required 
Transmission Enhancement, shall be as considered a Supplemental Project.  
 
(B) If a transmission enhancement or expansion is proposed pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.9(a) which is not a Supplemental Project (“State 
Agreement Public Policy Project”),  the Transmission Provider shall submit the assignment of 
costs to Responsible Customers proposed in connection with such State Agreement Public Policy 
Project to the Transmission Owners Agreement Administrative Committee for consideration and 
filing pursuant to Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, section 7.3 and Tariff, Part I, 
section 9.1(a).  Nothing in this section (b)(xii) shall prevent the Transmission Provider or the 
state governmental entities proposing such State Agreement Public Policy Project from filing a 
proposed assignment of costs to Responsible Customers for such project pursuant to Section 206 
of the Federal Power Act. 
 
 
 (xiii) Replacement of Transmission Facilities.  Unless determined by PJM to be a 
Required Transmission Enhancement included in a Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, cost 
responsibility for the replacement of Transmission Facilities, as defined in Consolidated 
Transmission Owners Agreement, section 1.27, shall be assigned to the Zonal loads and Merchant 
Transmission Facilities responsible for the costs of the Transmission Facilities being replaced.  
 
(xiv)    Multi-Driver Projects.   
 
(A) Assignment of Proportional Multi-Driver Project Costs.  The Transmission 
Provider shall assign cost responsibility for Proportional Multi-Driver Projects in proportion 
to the relative percentage benefit that each driver of a Proportional Multi-Driver Project 
addresses, respectively, reliability violations or operational performance (“reliability”), 
economic constraints (“economic”) and/or Public Policy Requirements (“public policy”) as 
follows:  
 
(1) As part of the open planning process provided for in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.10(h), the Transmission Provider employs the 
Proportional Method to develop a Proportional Multi-Driver Project, by determining 
which of the following drivers a Proportional Multi-Driver Project addresses: 
reliability, economic, or public policy, and the extent to which each such driver 
contributes to the size, scope, and estimated costs of such Proportional Multi-Driver 
Project (irrespective of the reliability cost allocation treatment that is otherwise 
accorded an incremental market efficiency modification thereto pursuant to section 
(b)(v)(B) of this Schedule 12).  The Transmission Provider shall identify the 
contribution of each driver in terms of a percentage totaling 100 percent for all such 
drivers at the time that each Proportional Multi-Driver Project is submitted to the PJM 
Board for approval and included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan. The 
percentage contribution of each driver shall be based on the ratio of the estimated cost 
of each project that the Multi-Driver Project replaces to the total of the estimated costs 
of all projects combined into the Multi-Driver Project.  
 
(2) Once a Proportional Multi-Driver Project is approved by the PJM Board, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 15 
the percentage contributions of each driver shall not be changed unless the PJM Board 
subsequently approves an upgrade or modification to the Proportional Multi-Driver 
Project.  In that event, the cost responsibility for the Proportional Multi-Driver Project, 
including any costs incurred prior to the upgrade or modification, will be determined as 
if it were a new Proportional Multi-Driver Project, such that the percentage 
contribution for each driver shall be established anew.   
 
(B) Assignment of Incremental Multi-Driver Project Costs.  The Transmission 
Provider shall assign cost responsibility for  Incremental Multi-Driver Projects as defined in 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.15B using the same methodology described in 
section (b)(xiv)(A)(1) above treating the estimated cost of modifying the original project as if 
it were the estimated cost of a separate project included in a Proportional Multi-Driver 
Project.  Any costs that had been expended on the original project prior its designation by 
Transmission Provider as an Incremental Multi-Driver Project shall be included in the 
calculation of the Incremental Multi-Driver Project pursuant to this section (b)(xiv)(B).   
 
(C) The Transmission Provider shall separately assign cost responsibility for the 
costs assigned to each driver pursuant to this section (b)(xiv) in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule 12 governing the assignment of cost responsibility for a single driver project 
of each driver’s respective type (reliability, economic or public policy).  Except as provided in 
section (b)(xiv)(D) below, cost responsibility will be assigned based on the final voltage and 
configuration of the Multi-Driver Project determined in accordance with sections (b)(i), (b)(ii), 
or (b)(vi) of this Schedule 12.  
 
(D)     Notwithstanding the cost assignments that would otherwise be provided for in 
section (b)(xiv)(C) above, if a Multi-Driver Project includes a public policy driver that is the 
result of the State Agreement Approach provided for in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, 
section 1.5.9 and is a Regional Facility as defined in section (b)(i) of this Schedule 12 and such 
Multi-Driver Project would not be a Regional Facility but for the inclusion of the public policy 
driver, then the percentage of costs of such Multi-Driver Project assigned to the non-public 
policy drivers in accordance with the procedures set forth in in section (b)(i)(A)(1) above shall 
be twenty percent (20%) and the percentage of costs assigned to the non-public policy drivers 
of such Multi-Driver Project in accordance section (b)(i)(A)(2) above shall be eighty percent 
(80%), and not the fifty percent (50%) cost responsibility percentages provided for in section 
(b)(i)(A)(i) and section (b)(i)(A)(2), respectively, of this Schedule 12.  
 
(xv) Reserved. 
 
 (xvi) Required Transmission Enhancements Designed to Address Reliability 
Violations on Transmission Facilities Operating Below 200 kV.  Notwithstanding section 
(b)(ii), above, cost responsibility for any Required Transmission Enhancements that are included 
in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to address reliability violations on Transmission 
Facilities that are designed to operate at below 200 kV and, pursuant to Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 6, section 1.5.8(n), were not included in an Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 
1.5.8(c) proposal window, shall be assigned to the Responsible Customers in the Zone where the 
Required Transmission Enhancement is to be located. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 16 
 
(xvii) Required Transmission Enhancements Constructed As Targeted Market 
Efficiency Projects Under The Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, 
Inc. and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. Coordinated System Plan.   Notwithstanding sections 
(b)(i), (b)(ii), (b)(iv), (b)(v), (b)(vi) and (b)(x)(B)(2) of this Schedule 12, cost responsibility for 
the costs of a Required Transmission Enhancement that is included in the Regional Transmission 
Expansion Plan because it is a Targeted Market Efficiency Project (“TMEP”) identified in the 
Coordinated System Plan periodically developed pursuant to the Joint Operating Agreement 
Between the Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. and PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM-MISO JOA”) and assigned to PJM pursuant to PJM-MISO JOA, 
section 9.4.4.2.5, shall be assigned among Zones and Merchant Transmission Facilities in 
accordance with this section (b)(xvii).  Using the Targeted Market Efficiency Project study 
conducted pursuant to PJM-MISO JOA, section 9.3.7.2(c) of in which the TMEP was identified, 
the Transmission Provider shall determine, in accordance with Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 5.1, the average annual Transmission Congestion Charges experienced by Market Buyers 
in Zones and at Merchant Transmission Facilities attributable to the targeted Reciprocal 
Coordinated Flowgate during the two historical calendar years prior to the study year of the 
Targeted Market Efficiency Project study.  In making this determination, the Transmission 
Provider shall net any increases in Day-ahead and Real-time Prices paid by Market Buyers in a 
Zone or at a Merchant Transmission Facility against any decreases in Day-ahead and Real-time 
Prices paid by Market Buyers in such Zone or at such Merchant Transmission Facility 
attributable to the targeted Reciprocal Coordinated Flowgate.  Where a single TMEP is 
constructed to reduce Transmission Congestion Charges attributable to more than one targeted 
Reciprocal Coordinated Flowgate, the Transmission Provider shall net any increases in Day-
ahead and Real-time Prices paid by Market Buyers in a Zone or at a Merchant Transmission 
Facility against any decreases in Day-ahead and Real-time Prices paid by Market Buyers in such 
Zone or at such Merchant Transmission Facility attributable to all targeted Reciprocal 
Coordinated Flowgates.  Cost responsibility shall be assigned based on each Zone’s and 
Merchant Transmission Facility’s pro rata share of the sum of the net Transmission Congestion 
Charges paid by Market Buyers only of the Zones and Merchant Transmission Facilities in 
which Market Buyers experienced net Transmission Congestion Charges. 
 
(xviii) Required Transmission Enhancements Designed to Address Stability Issues. 
For purposes of the assignment of cost responsibility for Reliability Projects designed to address 
stability issues under subsection (b)(i)(A)(2)(a) and subsection (b)(ii)(A) of this Schedule 12, the 
Transmission Provider shall, using the same inputs and assumptions from the simulation that 
originally drove the need for the stability upgrade, perform a stability simulation that includes 
the stability upgrade under the worst fault condition. The worst fault condition shall be the fault 
condition in the simulation that produces the maximum rotor angle swing with the stability 
upgrade included.  For each load bus on the system, the difference between the highest and 
lowest voltage angle that occurs during the simulation of the worst fault condition will be 
recorded. Load buses having a voltage angle deviation less than 25 percent of the load bus with 
the largest voltage angle deviation will not be included in the cost allocation calculation. For the 
remaining load buses, the voltage angle deviation will be multiplied by the megawatt load at the 
bus obtained from the stability simulation model, or, in the case of a Merchant Transmission 
Facility, the Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights at the bus. The products of the voltage angle 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 17 
deviation and megawatt load at each bus will be summed for each Responsible Zone. The 
Stability Deviation cost allocation for a Responsible Zone or Merchant Transmission Facility 
will be determined by dividing the sum of the load-weighted angle deviations for the 
Responsible Zone or Merchant Transmission Facility by the sum of the load-weighted angle 
deviations for each Responsible Zone and Merchant Transmission Facility. Transmission 
Provider shall round cost responsibility assignments to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent. 
 
(c) Determination of Transmission Enhancement Charges. In the event that any 
Transmission Owner recovers the cost of a Required Transmission Enhancement through a 
Transmission Enhancement Charge, such charge shall be determined as follows: 
 
(1) Transmission Provider shall identify in writing and post on the PJM Internet site 
the Required Transmission Enhancement(s) to which each Transmission Enhancement 
Charge corresponds. The Transmission Enhancement Charge with respect to a Required 
Transmission Enhancement shall recover the applicable Transmission Owner’s annual 
transmission revenue requirement associated with the Required Transmission 
Enhancement. 
 
(2)   Each Transmission Enhancement Charge shall be a monthly charge based on all 
costs and applicable incentives associated with a particular Required Transmission 
Enhancement for which the Transmission Owner is responsible.  
 
(3)  A Transmission Owner’s annual transmission revenue requirement associated 
with a Required Transmission Enhancement shall be determined pursuant to either (i) a 
unilateral filing by the Transmission Owner under Section 205 of the Federal Power Act 
and the FERC’s rules and regulations thereunder; or (ii) a formula rate in effect 
applicable to the Transmission Owner’s rates for Network Integration Transmission 
Service, including the costs associated with Required Transmission Enhancements.  
 
(4)  Each Transmission Enhancement Charge applicable to Network Customers and 
Non-Zone Network Customers shall be recalculated annually to reflect the annual 
revisions to the billing determinants used by the Transmission Provider to calculate 
charges to Network Customers for Network Integration Transmission Service under 
Tariff, Part III, section 34.1.  The Transmission Provider shall post on its Internet site by 
October 31 of each calendar year each recalculated Transmission Enhancement Charge 
that shall be effective during the subsequent calendar year. 
 
(5)  Each Transmission Enhancement Charge applicable to customers using Point-To-
Point Transmission Service shall be calculated monthly to reflect the billing determinants 
used by the Transmission Provider to determine charges for customers of Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service in accordance with Tariff, Part II, section 25.  
 
(6) Each Transmission Enhancement Charge payable by an owner of a Merchant 
Transmission Facility pursuant to section (b) of this Schedule 12 shall be calculated as a 
fixed monthly charge.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 18 
(7) If a Transmission Owner chooses to recover the cost of Required Transmission 
Enhancements through the operation of a formula rate as described in section (a) of this 
Schedule 12, the Transmission Owner must make an informational filing with the 
Commission one year from the date the selecting Transmission Owner’s formula rates go 
into effect, and each year thereafter, providing a detailed list of the costs the 
Transmission Owner has incurred, and the revenues the Transmission Owner has 
received to provide service. 
 
(d) Recovery of Transmission Enhancement Charges.   
 
(1) Responsible Customers shall pay Transmission Provider all applicable 
Transmission Enhancement Charges as required by this Schedule 12 in addition to 
all other charges for transmission service for which such Responsible Customers 
are responsible under the Tariff. 
 
(2) Transmission Provider shall collect all applicable Transmission Enhancement 
Charges from each Responsible Customer on a monthly basis.  Transmission 
Provider shall remit or credit all revenues received from Responsible Customers 
under this Schedule 12 to the Transmission Owner(s) that established such charge 
or to the appropriate authority in a region other than PJM in the case of 
Transmission Enhancement Charges established in such region in connection with 
a Required Transmission Enhancement constructed pursuant to an Appendix B 
Agreement, to be distributed in accordance with the applicable tariff or agreement 
governing the distribution of such charges in such region. 
 
(e) Crediting of Revenue from Transmission Enhancement Charges.  In recognition that 
a Transmission Owner’s charges for Network Integration Transmission Service set forth in 
Tariff, Attachment H are established based upon the Transmission Owner’s total cost of 
providing FERC-jurisdictional transmission service, including the costs associated with Required 
Transmission Enhancements, revenue from a Transmission Owner’s Transmission Enhancement 
Charges for a billing month shall be credited pursuant to this Schedule 12 to the Network 
Customers in the Transmission Owner’s Zone (including, where applicable, the Transmission 
Owner) and Transmission Customers purchasing Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service for 
delivery in the Transmission Owner’s Zone in proportion to their Demand Charges (including 
any imputed Demand Charges for bundled service to Native Load Customers) for Network 
Integration Transmission Service and Reserved Capacity for Firm Point-to-Point Transmission 
Service; provided that such credits shall be reduced by the amount of any applicable incentives 
included in such Transmission Enhancement Charges.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX 
 
Required Transmission Enhancements, Responsible Customers 
And Associated Transmission Owner Revenue Requirements. 
 
Required Transmission Enhancements that have been placed in service in PJM, the Transmission 
Owner(s) responsible for constructing and owning and/or financing such Required Transmission 
Enhancements, the Responsible Customers and the annual revenue requirement upon which 
Transmission Enhancement Charges determined in accordance with section (c) of Schedule 12 
are based, are set forth below. Unless otherwise stated, all designations of Responsible 
Customers refer collectively to all Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service and Network 
Integration Transmission Service customers in each indicated Zone and state the proportional 
(percentage) cost responsibility allocated to the indicated customers in each Zone. Zones are 
identified using the short names stated in Attachment J to the Tariff. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX --> OATT SCHEDULE 12.APPENDIX 1 Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 1/1/2026 - Docket #: ER26-899-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX 
 
(1) Atlantic City Electric Company 
 
Required Transmission Enhancements Annual Revenue Requirement Responsible Customer(s) 
b0135 
Build new Cumberland – 
Dennis 230 kV circuit 
which replaces existing 
Cumberland – Corson 138 
kV 
 
AEC (100%) 
b0136 
Install Dennis 230/138 kV 
transformer, Dennis 150 
MVAR SVC and 50 MVAR 
capacitor 
 
AEC (100%) 
b0137 Build new Dennis – Corson 
138 kV circuit  
AEC (100%) 
b0138 
Install Cardiff 230/138 kV 
transformer and a 50 
MVAR capacitor at Cardiff 
 
AEC (100%) 
b0139 Build new Cardiff – Lewis 
138 kV circuit  AEC (100%) 
b0140 Reconductor Laurel – 
Woodstown 69 kV  AEC (100%) 
b0141 Reconductor Monroe – 
North Central 69 kV  AEC (100%) 
b0265 
Upgrade AE portion of 
Delco Tap – Mickleton 230 
kV circuit 
 
AEC (89.87%) / JCPL 
(9.48%) / NEPTUNE* 
(0.65%) 
b0276 Replace both Monroe 
230/69 kV transformers  
AEC (91.28%) / PSEG 
(8.29%) / RE (0.23%) / 
ECP** (0.20%) 
b0276.1 
Upgrade a strand bus at 
Monroe to increase the 
rating of transformer #2 
 
AEC (100%) 
b0277 Install a second Cumberland 
230/138 kV transformer  AEC (100%) 
b0281.1 
Install 35 MVAR capacitor 
at Lake Ave 69 kV 
substation 
 
AEC (100%) 
* Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC 
**East Coast Power, L.L.C. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX --> OATT SCHEDULE 12.APPENDIX 1 Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 1/1/2026 - Docket #: ER26-899-000 - Page 2 
Atlantic City Electric Company (cont.) 
 
Required Transmission Enhancements Annual Revenue Requirement Responsible Customer(s) 
b0281.2 Install 15 MVAR capacitor at 
Shipbottom 69 kV substation  AEC (100%) 
b0281.3 Install 8 MVAR capacitors on 
the AE distribution system  AEC (100%) 
b0142 Reconductor Landis – 
Minotola 138 kV  AEC (100%) 
b0143 Reconductor Beckett – 
Paulsboro 69 kV  AEC (100%) 
Load-Ratio Share Allocation: 
AEC (1.63%) / AEP (14.27%) / 
APS (5.89%) / ATSI (7.62%) / 
BGE (3.96%) / ComEd (12.47%) 
/ Dayton (2.04%) / DEOK 
(3.12%) / DL (1.62%) / DPL 
(2.53%) / Dominion (14.85%) / 
EKPC (2.26%) / JCPL (3.78%) / 
ME (1.81%) / NEPTUNE* 
(0.41%) / OVEC (0.07%) / 
PECO (5.04%) / PENELEC 
(1.75%) / PEPCO (3.62%) / PPL 
(4.85%) / PSEG (6.16%) / RE 
(0.25%) 
b0210 
Install a new 500/230 kV 
substation in AEC area.  The 
high side will be tapped on the 
Salem - East Windsor 500 kV 
circuit and the low side will be 
tapped on the Churchtown - 
Cumberland 230 kV circuit. 
 
DFAX Allocation: 
AEC (100.00%) 
b0210.1 Orchard – Cumberland – 
Install  second 230 kV line  
AEC (65.23%) / JCPL (25.87%) 
/ NEPTUNE* (2.55%) / PSEG 
(6.35%)†† 
b0210.2 
Install a new 500/230 kV 
substation in AEC area, the 
high side will be tapped on the 
Salem - East Windsor 500 kV 
circuit and the low side will be 
tapped on the Churchtown - 
Cumberland 230 kV circuit. 
 
AEC (65.23%) / JCPL (25.87%) 
/ NEPTUNE* (2.55%) / PSEG 
(6.35%)†† 
* Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC 
††Cost allocations associated with below 500 kV elements of the project 
The Annual Revenue Requirement associated with the Transmission Enhancement Charges are 
set forth and determined in Appendix A to Attachment H-1. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX --> OATT SCHEDULE 12.APPENDIX 1 Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 1/1/2026 - Docket #: ER26-899-000 - Page 3 
Atlantic City Electric Company (cont.) 
 
Required Transmission Enhancements Annual Revenue Requirement  Responsible Customer(s) 
b0211 Reconductor Union - 
Corson 138 kV circuit  
AEC (65.23%) / JCPL 
(25.87%) / NEPTUNE* 
(2.55%) / PSEG (6.35%) 
b0212 Substation upgrades at 
Union and Corson 138 kV  
AEC (65.23%) / JCPL 
(25.87%) / NEPTUNE* 
(2.55%) / PSEG (6.35%) 
b0214 
Install 50 MVAR capacitor 
at Cardiff 230 kV 
substation 
 
AEC (100%) 
b0431 Monroe Upgrade New 
Freedom strand bus  
AEC (100%) 
b0576 Move the Monroe 230/69 
kV to Mickleton  
AEC (100%) 
b0744 Upgrade a strand bus at 
Mill 138 kV  
AEC (100%) 
b0871 Install 35 MVAR capacitor 
at Motts Farm 69 kV  
AEC (100%) 
b1072 
Modify the existing EMS 
load shedding scheme at 
Cedar to additionally sense 
the loss of both Cedar 
230/69 kV transformers 
and shed load accordingly 
 
AEC (100%) 
b1127 Build a new Lincoln-
Minitola 138 kV line  
AEC (100%) 
b1195.1 Upgrade the Corson sub T2 
terminal  
AEC (100%) 
b1195.2 Upgrade the Corson sub T1 
terminal  
AEC (100%) 
* Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX --> OATT SCHEDULE 12.APPENDIX 1 Atlantic City Electric Company 
Effective Date: 1/1/2026 - Docket #: ER26-899-000 - Page 4 
Atlantic City Electric Company (cont.) 
 
Required Transmission Enhancements Annual Revenue Requirement  Responsible Customer(s) 
b1244 
Install 10 MVAR capacitor 
at Peermont 69 kV 
substation 
 
AEC (100%) 
b1245 Rebuild the Newport-South 
Millville 69 kV line  
AEC (100%) 
b1250 Reconductor the Monroe – 
Glassboro 69 kV  
AEC (100%) 
b1250.1 Upgrade substation 
equipment at Glassboro  
AEC (100%) 
b1280 Sherman:  Upgrade 138/69 
kV transformers  
AEC (100%) 
b1396 Replace Lewis 138 kV 
breaker ‘L’  
AEC (100%) 
b1398.5 
Reconductor the existing 
Mickleton – Goucestr 230 
kV circuit (AE portion) 
 
JCPL (12.82%) / NEPTUNE* 
(1.18%) / HTP*** (0.79%) / 
PECO (51.08%) / PEPCO 
(0.57%) / ECP** (0.85%) / 
PSEG (31.46%) / RE (1.25%) 
b1598 Reconductor Sherman Av – 
Carl’s Corner 69 kV circuit  
AEC (100%) 
b1599 
Replace terminal 
equipments at Central 
North 69 kV substation 
 
AEC (100%) 
b1600 Upgrade the Mill T2 
138/69 kV transformer  
AEC (88.83%) / JCPL (4.74%) 
/ HTP*** (0.20%) / ECP** 
(0.22%) / PSEG (5.78%) / RE 
(0.23%) 
b2157 
Re-build 5.3 miles of the 
Corson - Tuckahoe 69 kV 
circuit 
 
AEC (100%) 
* Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC 
**East Coast Power, L.L.C. 
***Hudson Transmission Partners, LLC 
The Annual Revenue Requirement associated with the Transmission Enhancement Charges are 
set forth and determined in Appendix A to Attachment H-1. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX --> OATT SCHEDULE 12.APPENDIX 2 Baltimore Gas and Electric Com 
Effective Date: 1/1/2026 - Docket #: ER26-899-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX 
 
(2) Baltimore Gas and Electric Company 
 
Required Transmission Enhancements Annual Revenue Requirement Responsible Customer(s) 
b0152 
Add (2) 230 kV Breakers 
at High Ridge and install 
two Northwest 230 kV 
120 MVAR capacitors 
 
BGE (100%) 
b0244 
Install a 4th Waugh Chapel 
500/230 kV transformer, 
terminate the transformer 
in a new 500 kV bay and 
operate the existing in-
service spare transformer 
on standby 
 
BGE (85.56%) / ME (0.83%) / 
PEPCO (13.61%) 
b0298 
Replace both Conastone 
500/230 kV transformers 
with larger transformers 
As specified in Attachment 
H-2A, Attachment 7, the 
Transmission Enhancement 
Charge Worksheet 
BGE (75.85%) / Dominion 
(11.54%) / ME (4.73%) / PEPCO 
(7.88%) 
b0298.1 Replace Conastone 230 
kV breaker 500-3/2323  BGE (100%) 
b0474 
Add a fourth 230/115 kV 
transformer, two 230 kV 
circuit breakers and a 115 
kV breaker at Waugh 
Chapel 
 
BGE (100%) 
b0475 
Create two 230 kV ring 
buses at North West, add 
two 230/115 kV 
transformers at North 
West and create a new 115 
kV station at North West 
 
BGE (100%) 
b0476 
Rebuild High Ridge 230 
kV substation to Breaker 
and Half configuration 
 
BGE (100%) 
b0477 
Replace the Waugh 
Chapel 500/230 kV 
transformer #1 with three 
single phase transformers 
 BGE (90.56%) / ME (1.51%) / 
PECO (.92%) / PEPCO (4.01%) / 
PPL (3.00%) 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX --> OATT SCHEDULE 12.APPENDIX 2 Baltimore Gas and Electric Com 
Effective Date: 1/1/2026 - Docket #: ER26-899-000 - Page 2 
Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (cont.) 
 
Required Transmission Enhancements Annual Revenue Requirement Responsible Customer(s) 
b0497 
Install a second 
Conastone – Graceton 
230 kV circuit 
 
AEC (9.00%) / DPL (16.85%) / 
JCPL (9.64%) / ME (1.48%) / 
NEPTUNE* (0.95%) / PECO 
(30.79%) / PPL (16.41%) / 
ECP** (0.29%) / PSEG (14.07%) 
/ RE (0.52%) 
b0497.1 Replace Conastone 230 
kV breaker #4  
BGE (100%) 
b0497.2 Replace Conastone 230 
kV breaker #7  
BGE (100%) 
b0500.2 
Replace wavetrap and 
raise operating 
temperature on 
Conastone – Otter Creek 
230 kV line to 165 deg 
 
AEC (6.27%) / DPL (8.65 %) / 
JCPL (14.54%) / ME (10.59%) / 
NEPTUNE* (1.37%) / PECO 
(15.66%) / PPL (21.02%) / 
ECP** (0.57%) / PSEG (20.56%) 
/ RE (0.77%) 
b0512.33 
MAPP Project Install 
new Hallowing Point – 
Calvert Cliffs 500 kV 
circuit and associated 
substation work at 
Calvert Cliffs substation 
 
AEC (1.63%) / AEP (14.27%) / 
APS (5.89%) / ATSI (7.62%) / 
BGE (3.96%) / ComEd (12.47%) 
/ Dayton (2.04%) / DEOK 
(3.12%) / DL (1.62%) / DPL 
(2.53%) / Dominion (14.85%) / 
EKPC (2.26%) / JCPL (3.78%) / 
ME (1.81%) / NEPTUNE* 
(0.41%) / OVEC (0.07%) / PECO 
(5.04%) / PENELEC (1.75%) / 
PEPCO (3.62%) / PPL (4.85%) / 
PSEG (6.16%) / RE (0.25%) 
* Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC 
**East Coast Power, L.L.C.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX --> OATT SCHEDULE 12.APPENDIX 2 Baltimore Gas and Electric Com 
Effective Date: 1/1/2026 - Docket #: ER26-899-000 - Page 3 
Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (cont.) 
 
Required Transmission Enhancements Annual Revenue Requirement Responsible Customer(s) 
b0512.43 
MAPP Project Install 
new Hallowing Point – 
Calvert Cliffs 500 kV 
circuit and associated 
substation work at 
Calvert Cliffs substation 
 
AEC (1.63%) / AEP (14.27%) / 
APS (5.89%) / ATSI (7.62%) / 
BGE (3.96%) / ComEd (12.47%) 
/ Dayton (2.04%) / DEOK 
(3.12%) / DL (1.62%) / DPL 
(2.53%) / Dominion (14.85%) / 
EKPC (2.26%) / JCPL (3.78%) / 
ME (1.81%) / NEPTUNE* 
(0.41%) / OVEC (0.07%) / PECO 
(5.04%) / PENELEC (1.75%) / 
PEPCO (3.62%) / PPL (4.85%) / 
PSEG (6.16%) / RE (0.25%) 
b0729 
Rebuild both Harford – 
Perryman 110615-A and 
110616-A 115 kV 
circuits 
 
BGE (100%) 
b0749 
Replace 230 kV breaker 
and associated CT’s at 
Riverside 230 kV on 
2345 line; replace all 
dead-end structures at 
Brandon Shores, 
Hawkins Point, Sollers 
Point and Riverside; 
Install a second 
conductor per phase on 
the spans entering each 
station 
 
BGE (100%) 
* Neptune Regional Transmission System, LLC 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 – APPENDIX --> OATT SCHEDULE 12.APPENDIX 2 Baltimore Gas and Electric Com 