SCHEDULE 11A 
Additional Secure Control Center Data Communication Links and Formula Rate 
 
a)  PJM shall recover the costs of providing secure control center data communication 
(“PJMnet”) in the manner set forth in this Schedule 11A from those Members who request 
additional PJMnet connections that are not required for reliability in the operation of the LLC or 
the Office of the Interconnection.    
 
b) The costs to be recovered under this Schedule 11A consist of the actual costs of owning, 
leasing, and operating PJMnet and all of its related assets.  These costs include, but are not 
limited to: 
 
(i) installation of PJMnet connections, the purchase of routers required to support the 
connection, network and real-time data connection configuration, testing, and 
infrastructure;  
 
(ii) software license and maintenance costs; 
 
(iii) hardware maintenance and lease costs; 
 
(iv) telecommunications equipment, including maintenance, purchase, and lease costs; 
 
(v) telecommunications costs associated with transmitting and receiving data; and  
 
(vi)  ongoing monitoring, maintenance and enhancement costs. 
 
For purposes of this Schedule 11A, “actual costs” shall mean all costs, expenses, disbursements 
and other amounts incurred (whether paid or accrued). 
 
c) The costs set forth in this Schedule 11A shall be recovered from Members who requested 
additional PJMnet connections that are not required for reliability in the operation of the LLC or 
the Office of the Interconnection by way of additional charges to each such Member. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 11A 
Effective Date: 4/7/2014 - Docket #: ER14-1270-000 - Page 2 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 12 
Transmission Enhancement Charges 
 
(a) Establishment of Transmission Enhancement Charges.   
 
 (i) Establishment of Transmission Enhancement Charges by Transmission 
Owners and Entities That Will Become Transmission Owners.  One or more of the 
Transmission Owners may be designated to construct and own and/or finance Required 
Transmission Enhancements by (1) the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan periodically 
developed pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6 or (2) any joint planning or 
coordination agreement between PJM and another region or transmission planning authority set 
forth in Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix B (“Appendix B Agreement”) (collectively, for purposes 
of this Schedule 12 only, “Regional Transmission Expansion Plan”).  Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 6, section 1.7 recognizes that Transmission Owners, subject to obtaining any necessary 
regulatory approvals, may seek to recover the costs of Required Transmission Enhancements and 
obligates PJMSettlement to collect on behalf of Transmission Owner(s) any charges established 
by Transmission Owners to recover the costs of Required Transmission Enhancements.  If a 
Transmission Owner is designated by the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to construct 
and own and/or finance a Required Transmission Enhancement, such Transmission Owner may 
choose any of the following cost recovery mechanisms, subject to the crediting procedures set 
forth in section (e) below:  
 
(1) Decline to seek to recover the costs of Required Transmission Enhancements 
from customers until such time as it makes a filing pursuant to Section 205 of the Federal 
Power Act to revise its Network Integration Transmission Service rates; 
 
(2)  Make a filing pursuant Section 205 of the Federal Power Act and the FERC’s 
rules and regulations to establish the revenue requirement with respect to a Required 
Transmission Enhancement, without filing to revise its rates for Network Integration 
Transmission Service generally; or 
 
(3)  Establish the revenue requirement with respect to a Required Transmission 
Enhancement through the operation of a formula rate in effect applicable to its rates for 
Network Integration Transmission Service. 
 
A charge established to recover the revenue requirement with respect to a Required Transmission 
Enhancement is hereafter referred to as a “Transmission Enhancement Charge.”  Transmission 
Enhancement Charges of one or more Transmission Owners for Required Transmission 
Enhancements shall be established in accordance with this Schedule 12.    
 
 (ii) Establishment of Transmission Enhancement Charges With Respect to 
Required Transmission Enhancements Constructed by Entities in Another Region. The 
revenue requirement with respect to a Required Transmission Enhancement constructed pursuant 
to an Appendix B Agreement in another region by an entity designated by such other region shall 
be governed by the tariffs or agreements in effect in such region. Transmission Enhancement 
Charges to recover the costs of such Required Transmission Enhancement for which PJM is 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 2 
responsible shall be determined in accordance with this Schedule 12.  Other than with respect to 
a Required Transmission Enhancement constructed pursuant to an Appendix B Agreement, no 
PJM Network or Transmission Customer will bear cost responsibility for any required 
transmission upgrades in another region as a consequence of a Required Transmission 
Enhancement included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan.   
 
 (iii) Transmission Facilities Not Eligible for Cost Responsibility Assignment.  Any 
alternating current (“A.C.”) facilities or direct current (“D.C.”) facilities that are Attachment 
Facilities, Local Upgrades, Merchant Network Upgrades, Merchant Transmission Facilities, 
Network Upgrades, Supplemental Projects, or any other Transmission Facilities that operate or 
are planned to be operated in a manner that requires customers to subscribe to transmission 
service over such facilities or to a portion of the electric capability of such facilities shall not be 
eligible for cost responsibility assignment pursuant to this Schedule 12.   
 
 (iv) Entities Not Yet Eligible to Become Transmission Owners.  For purposes of 
this Schedule 12 only, the term, “Transmission Owner,” shall include any entity that undertakes 
to construct and own and/or finance a Required Transmission Enhancement pursuant to a 
designation in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to construct and own and/or finance 
such Required Transmission Enhancement, even if such entity is not yet eligible to become a 
party to the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement.  Nothing in the PJM Tariff nor the 
Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement shall prevent an entity that undertakes to 
construct and own and/or finance a Required Transmission Enhancement pursuant to a 
designation in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to construct and own and/or finance 
such Required Transmission Enhancement from recovering the costs of such Required 
Transmission Enhancement through this Schedule 12. 
 
 (v) Effective Date.  The assignment of cost responsibility or classification of 
Required Transmission Enhancements either (1) made by the Transmission Provider prior to 
February 1, 2013, or (2) applicable to Required Transmission Enhancements approved by the 
PJM Board pursuant to Operating Agreement, section 1.6 prior to February 1, 2013 are set forth 
in Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix.  Except as specifically set forth herein, nothing in this 
Schedule 12 shall change the assignment of cost responsibility or classification of Required 
Transmission Enhancements included in Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix.  The assignment of cost 
responsibility or classification of all other Required Transmission Enhancements shall be set 
forth in Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix A.  
 
 
(b) Designation of Customers Subject to Transmission Enhancement Charges.   
 
 (i) Regional Facilities and Necessary Lower Voltage Facilities.  Transmission 
Provider shall assign cost responsibility on a region-wide basis for Required Transmission 
Enhancements included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan that (1) (a) are A.C. 
facilities that operate at or above 500 kV; (b) constitute a single Required Transmission 
Enhancement comprising two A.C. circuits operating at or above 345 kV and below 500 kV, 
where both circuits originate from a single substation or switching station at one end and 
terminate at a single substation or switching station at the other end, regardless of whether or not 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 3 
the two circuits are routed in the same right-of-way (“Double-circuit 345 kV Required 
Transmission Enhancement”); (c) are A.C. or D.C. shunt reactive resources (such as capacitors, 
static var compensators, static synchronous condenser (STATCON), synchronous condensers, 
inductors, other shunt devices, or their equivalent) connected to a Transmission Facility 
described in clause (a) or (b) of this subsection, or (d) are D.C. facilities meeting the criteria set 
forth in subsection (b)(i)(D) (collectively, “Regional Facilities”), or (2) new A.C. Transmission 
Facilities or expansions or enhancements to existing Transmission Facilities that operate below 
500 kV (or 345 kV in the case of a Regional Facility described in clause (1)(b) of this 
subsection) or new D.C. Transmission Facilities that do not meet the criteria of subsection 
(b)(i)(D) that must be constructed or strengthened to support new Regional Facilities, based on 
the planning criteria used by the Transmission Provider in developing the applicable Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan (“Necessary Lower Voltage Facilities”) as follows:  
 
  (A) Cost responsibility for Regional Facilities and Necessary Lower Voltage 
Facilities shall be allocated among Responsible Customers as defined in this Schedule 12 as 
follows: 
 
   (1) Fifty percent (50%) shall be assigned annually on a load-ratio 
share basis as follows: 
    (a) With respect to each Zone, using, consistent with Tariff, 
Part III, section 34.1, the applicable zonal loads at the time of such Zone’s annual peak load from 
the 12-month period ending October 31 preceding the calendar year for which the annual cost 
responsibility allocation is determined; and 
    (b) With respect to Merchant Transmission Facilities, (1) for 
the calendar year following the year in which it initiates operation, the actually awarded Firm 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights associated with its existing Merchant Transmission Facility; 
and (2) for all subsequent calendar years, the annual peak load of the Merchant Transmission 
Facility (not to exceed its actual Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights) from the 12-month 
period ending October 31 of the calendar year preceding the calendar year for which the annual 
cost responsibility allocation is determined. 
(2) Fifty percent (50%) shall be assigned as follows: 
    (a) In the case of a Required Transmission Enhancement 
included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to address one or more reliability 
violations or to address operational adequacy and performance issues (collectively, “Reliability 
Project”), in accordance with the distribution factor (“DFAX”) analysis described in subsection 
(b)(iii) or the analysis applicable to Regional Facilities that address stability issues described in 
subsection (b)(xviii) of this Schedule 12 as applicable; and 
    (b) In the case of a Required Transmission Enhancement 
included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan to relieve one or more economic 
constraints as described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 6, section 1.5.7(b)(iii) (“Economic 
Project”), in accordance with the methodology described in subsection (b)(v) of this Schedule 
12. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 4 
  (B) (1) Except for transformers that are an integral component of a Regional 
Facility, transformers connected to Lower Voltage Facilities, as defined in section (b)(ii) of this 
Schedule 12, shall not be considered Regional Facilities or Necessary Lower Voltage Facilities; 
and (2) Transmission Facilities that are not Regional Facilities and deliver energy from a 
Regional Facility to load shall not be considered Necessary Lower Voltage Facilities. 
  
  (C) With respect Required Transmission Enhancements that qualify as 
Regional Facilities under subsection (b)(i)(1)(b) or subsection (b)(i)(D)(2) of this Schedule 12: 
 
   (1) where the Required Transmission Enhancement includes both new 
Transmission Facilities and pre-existing Transmission Facilities, cost responsibility under this 
section (b)(i) shall apply only to the cost of the new Transmission Facilities plus the original cost 
less accumulated depreciation of pre-existing Transmission Facilities that are included in Tariff, 
Schedule 12-Appendix or Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix A; 
   (2) cost responsibility shall be assigned under this section (b)(i) only 
after the Required Transmission Enhancement goes into service as a Double-circuit 345 kV 
Required Transmission Enhancement or a Double-circuit D.C. Required Transmission 
Enhancement; and  
   (3) cost responsibility shall be assigned under this section (b)(i) for 
any CWIP permitted to be recovered before the Required Transmission Enhancement goes into 
service only after such Transmission Facilities are approved in a Regional Transmission 
Expansion Plan as a Double-circuit 345 kV Required Transmission Enhancement or a Double-
circuit D.C. Required Transmission Enhancement. 
  (D) A Required Transmission Enhancement included in the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan that is a D.C. facility, consisting of D.C. lines (i.e., wires or 
cables) and A.C./D.C. converters, shall be a Regional Facility only if:  
   (1)  such D.C. facility comprises two poles and operates at a voltage of 
±433 kV D.C. or above; or 
   (2) such D.C. Facility constitutes a single Required Transmission 
Enhancement comprising two D.C. circuits where (i) both circuits originate from a single 
substation or switching station at one end and terminate at a single substation or switching 
station at the other end, regardless of whether or not both circuits are routed in the same right-of-
way, and (ii) each such circuit consists of two poles and operates at a voltage of ±298 kV D.C or 
above (“Double-circuit D.C. Required Transmission Enhancement”). 
 (ii) Lower Voltage Facilities.  Transmission Provider shall assign cost responsibility 
for Required Transmission Enhancements that (a) are not Regional Facilities; and (b) are not 
“Necessary Lower Voltage Facilities” as defined in section(b)(i) of this Schedule 12 (collectively 
“Lower Voltage Facilities”), as follows: 
 
  (A) If the Lower Voltage Facility is a Reliability Project,  Transmission 
Provider shall use the DFAX analysis described in subsection (b)(iii) or the analysis applicable to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 5 
Regional Facilities that address stability issues described in subsection (b)(xviii) of this Schedule 
12 as applicable; and 
  (B) If the Lower Voltage Facility is an Economic Project, Transmission 
Provider shall use the methodology described in subsection (b)(v) of this Schedule 12. 
 
 (iii) DFAX Analysis for Reliability Projects.   
(A)  For purposes of the assignment of cost responsibility for Reliability Projects 
under subsection (b)(i)(A)(2)(a) and subsection (b)(ii)(A) of this Schedule 12, the Transmission 
Provider, based on a computer model of the electric network and using power flow modeling 
software, shall calculate distribution factors, represented as decimal values or percentages, which 
express the portions of a transfer of energy from a defined source to a defined sink that will flow 
across a particular transmission facility or group of transmission facilities.  These distribution 
factors represent a measure of the use by the load of each Zone or Merchant Transmission 
Facility (collectively, “Responsible Zone”) of the Required Transmission Enhancement, as 
determined by a power flow analysis.  In general, a distribution factor can be represented as: 
 
Distribution Factor = (After-shift power flow – pre-shift power flow) / Total amount of power 
shifted 
 
Total amount of power shifted = Modeled incremental megawatt transfer to a given Load 
Deliverability Area or Merchant Transmission Facility 
 
Pre-shift power flow = Megawatt flow over the Required Transmission Enhancement  
before the incremental megawatt transfer 
 
After-shift power flow = Megawatt flow over the Required Transmission Enhancement 
after the incremental megawatt transfer 
 
When calculating such distribution factors: 
 
   (1) All distribution factors are calculated with respect to the Required 
Transmission Enhancement subject to cost allocation under subsection (b)(i)(A)(2)(a) and 
subsection (b)(ii)(A) of this Schedule 12. 
 
   (2) The calculation of distribution factors shall be determined using 
linear matrix algebra, such that distribution factors represent the ratio of (i) a change in megawatt 
flow on a Required Transmission Enhancement to (ii) a change in megawatts transferred to 
aggregate load within a Zone or, in the case of a Merchant Transmission Facility, the point of 
withdrawal associated with Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights over such Merchant 
Transmission Facility. 
 
   (3) With respect to a Merchant Transmission Facility, zonal peak load 
shall mean (i) the existing Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights of the Merchant Transmission 
Facility being evaluated, if the Merchant Transmission Facility is in service, or (ii) for a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 6 
Merchant Transmission Facility that is not yet in service, the planned Firm Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights of the Merchant Transmission Facility being evaluated as identified in the 
Interconnection Service Agreement in effect for such Merchant Transmission Facility.  
 
   (4) In the DFAX analysis, when Transmission Provider models a 
transfer from generation to all load within an individual Zone, Transmission Provider shall 
model the transfer to the Zone as a whole (not on a bus-by-bus basis).   
 
   (5) In the DFAX analysis, Transmission Provider shall model 
generation both external and internal to individual Responsible Zones to reflect (a) the 
boundaries of Locational Deliverability Areas (“LDAs”), and (b) limitations with respect to the 
reliability objective for moving generation capacity across the transmission system.  
Transmission Provider shall adopt the Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective (“CETO”), 
associated with that LDA and calculated for the applicable planning year to be the transfer 
limitation into the LDA.  In modeling the system generation and load, Transmission Provider 
shall assume that the percentage of the zonal load in the LDA served by external (or internal) 
generation to the LDA shall equal the ratio of (i) the CETO associated within that LDA (or 
generation internal with the LDA) to (ii) the sum of (a) the internal generation within the LDA 
and (b) the CETO associated with that LDA.  For the generation dispatch used in calculating the 
distribution factor, Transmission Provider shall distribute these amounts of external/internal 
generation among all generation in the PJM Region external to/internal within the LDA, 
respectively, in proportion to their capacity.  For Responsible Zones that are located within 
LDAs that are also entirely contained in other larger LDAs, the modeling approach and 
distribution factor calculations shall be repeated for such Responsible Zones for each LDA.  The 
lowest distribution factor derived from these calculations shall be applied to the Responsible 
Zone in the calculation of the use of the Required Transmission Enhancement.   
 
   (6) Except as provided in this subsection, no cost responsibility shall 
be assigned to a Responsible Zone unless the magnitude of the distribution factor is greater than 
or equal to 0.01, and any distribution factor of a smaller magnitude shall be set equal to zero.  
This rule shall not apply to the Zone(s) in which the Required Transmission Enhancement is 
located, which shall be assigned cost responsibility based on its distribution factor, regardless of 
the magnitude.   
 
  (B)  The DFAX analysis will be performed in accordance with the following 
steps: 
 
   (1) Transmission Provider shall calculate a distribution factor and a 
direction of use for each Responsible Zone by modeling a transfer from all generation in the PJM 
Region to each Responsible Zone.  To establish the use by a Responsible Zone, in megawatts, of 
a Required Transmission Enhancement, the distribution factor of a Required Transmission 
Enhancement associated with the resulting transfer modeled by the Transmission Provider to 
each Responsible Zone shall be multiplied by the Responsible Zone’s peak load. 
 
   (2) The Transmission Provider shall separately determine the relative 
use of the Required Transmission Enhancement by each Responsible Zone in each direction by 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 7 
dividing the megawatts of use by each Responsible Zone determined in section (iii)(B)(1) above 
by the total use of all Responsible Zones using the Required Transmission Enhancement in the 
same direction of use. 
 
   (3)  Transmission Provider shall determine the direction of use 
percentage of the Required Transmission Enhancement in each direction using a production cost 
analysis to determine the total use, in megawatt-hours, of the Required Transmission 
Enhancement by all Zones and Merchant Transmission Facilities in each direction over the 
course of a year.  The Transmission Provider shall calculate the percentage use in each direction 
by dividing the megawatt-hours of use in each direction by total use in megawatt-hours in both 
directions of use. 
 
   (4) The Transmission Provider shall multiply the relative use by each 
Responsible Zone of the Required Transmission Enhancement in each direction of use 
determined in section (iii)(B)(2) above, by the applicable direction of use percentage determined 
in section (iii)(B)(3) above.  
 
   (5) The products of the calculation performed in section (iii)(B)(4) 
above, shall determine the relative allocation to each Responsible Zone of cost responsibility for 
the Required Transmission Enhancement. 
 
  (C) In the DFAX analysis, the Zones of Public Service Electric and Gas 
Company and Rockland Electric Company will be treated as one Zone unless and until Rockland 
Electric Company elects to be treated as a separate Zone in accordance with the terms of the 
Settlement Agreement And Offer Of Partial Settlement approved by FERC in Docket Nos. 
ER06-456-000, et al. 
 
  (D) Transmission Provider shall round cost responsibility assignments 
determined using the DFAX analysis described in subsection (b)(iii) of this Schedule 12 to the 
nearest one-hundredth of one percent. 
 
  (E) Transmission Provider shall not account for the ability to adjust use of 
phase angle regulators (“PARs”) in the DFAX analysis described in subsection (b)(iii) of this 
Schedule 12.  In the DFAX analysis, all PAR angles shall be fixed at their base case settings.  
 
  (F) In the DFAX analysis, if the Required Transmission Enhancement is a 
D.C. facility, the Transmission Provider shall determine cost responsibility assignment as 
follows: 
 
   (1) The Required Transmission Enhancement shall be replaced in the 
model with a comparable proxy A.C. facility, the impedance of which shall be calculated based 
on the length of the D.C. facility that was removed from the model multiplied by an approximate 
per unit/mile impedance value for the proxy A.C. facility. 
 
   (2) Where a D.C. facility is an integral part of a Required 
Transmission Enhancement that also includes A.C. facilities, the methodology described in 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 8 
subsection (b)(iii)(F)(1) above shall be used only for the D.C. facility segment of such Required 
Transmission Enhancement. 
 
   (3) A D.C. facility used to control flow over portions of the 
Transmission System shall be modeled with a zero impedance and no control shall be applied. 
 
  (G) If Transmission Provider determines in its reasonable engineering judgment 
that, as a result of applying the provisions in section (b)(iii) of this Schedule 12, the DFAX 
analysis cannot be performed or that the results of such DFAX analysis are objectively 
unreasonable, the Transmission Provider may use an appropriate substitute proxy for the 
Required Transmission Enhancement in conducting the DFAX analysis.  If a proxy is used that is 
not specified in this Schedule 12, Transmission Provider shall state in a written report (a) the 
reasons why it determined the DFAX analysis could not be performed or that the results of the 
DFAX analysis were objectively unreasonable; (b) why the substitute proxy produced 
objectively reasonable results; and (3) a recommendation as to what changes, if any, should be 
considered in conducting the DFAX analysis. 
   
  (H) The Transmission Provider shall make a preliminary cost responsibility 
determination for each Required Transmission Enhancement subject to section (b)(iii) of this 
Schedule 12 at the time such Required Transmission Enhancement is included in the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan.   
 
   (1)  When CWIP in connection with a Required Transmission 
Enhancement subject to this section (b)(iii) of this Schedule 12 is entitled to be recovered, the 
preliminary determination of cost responsibility made at the time that the Required Transmission 
Enhancement was included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan shall be used to assign 
cost responsibility for such CWIP and such cost responsibility shall remain unchanged until the 
date the Required Transmission Enhancement goes into service.  Once a Required Transmission 
Enhancement has gone into service, the updated cost responsibility determination provided for in 
subsection (b)(iii)(H)(2) below shall apply. 
 
   (2) Beginning with the calendar year in which a Required 
Transmission Enhancement is scheduled to enter service, and thereafter annually at the 
beginning of each calendar year, the Transmission Provider shall update the preliminary cost 
responsibility determination for each Required Transmission Enhancement using the values and 
inputs used in the base case of the most recent Regional Transmission Expansion Plan approved 
by the PJM Board prior to the date of the update.  All values and inputs used in the calculation of 
the distribution factor in a determination of cost responsibility shall be the same values and 
inputs as used in the base case of the most recent Regional Transmission Expansion Plan 
approved by the PJM Board prior to the determination of cost responsibility.   
 
 (iv) Spare Parts, Replacement Equipment And Circuit Breakers.  Transmission 
Provider shall assign cost responsibility for spare parts, replacement equipment, and circuit 
breakers and associated equipment, included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan as 
follows: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12 
Effective Date: 6/11/2022 - Docket #: ER22-1606-000 - Page 9 
  (A)  Spare parts that are part of the design specifications of a Required 
Transmission Enhancement at the time such Required Transmission Enhancement is first 
included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan shall be considered part of the Required 
Transmission Enhancement for the purpose of applying the cost threshold described in 
subsection (b)(vi) of this Schedule 12 and cost responsibility for such spare parts shall be 
assigned in the same manner as the Required Transmission Enhancement.  Cost responsibility for 
spare parts independently included the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan and not a part of 
the design specifications of a Required Transmission Enhancement as described above in this 
subsection shall be assigned to the Zone of the owner of the spare part, if the owner of the spare 
part is a Transmission Owner listed in Tariff, Attachment J.  If the owner of the spare part is not 
a Transmission Owner listed in Tariff, Attachment J, cost responsibility shall be assigned on a 
pro rata basis to the zones that bear cost responsibility for the owner’s Required Transmission 
Enhancements. 
 
  (B)  Replacement equipment that is part of the design specifications of a 
Required Transmission Enhancement at the time the Required Transmission Enhancement is first 
included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan shall be considered part of the Required 
Transmission Enhancement for the purpose of applying the cost threshold described in section 
(b)(vi) of this Schedule 12 and cost responsibility for such replacement equipment shall be 
assigned in the same manner as the Required Transmission Enhancement.  Cost responsibility for 
Required Transmission Enhancement replacement equipment independently included in the 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan and not a part of the design specifications of a Required 
Transmission Enhancement as described above in this subsection, shall be assigned to the same 
Zones and/or Merchant Transmission Facilities and in the same proportions as the then-existing 
assignments of cost responsibility for the facilities that the replacement equipment is replacing. 
 
  (C)  Circuit breakers and associated equipment that are part of the design 
specifications of a Required Transmission Enhancement at the time the Required Transmission 
Enhancement is first included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan shall be considered 
part of the Required Transmission Enhancement for the purpose of applying the cost threshold 
described in subsection (b)(vi) of this Schedule 12 and cost responsibility for such circuit 
breakers and associated equipment shall be assigned in the same manner as the Required 
Transmission Enhancement.  Cost responsibility for circuit breakers and associated equipment 
independently included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan and not a part of the design 
specifications of a transmission element of a  Required Transmission Enhancement as described 
above in this subsection, shall be assigned to the Zone of the owner of the circuit breaker and 
associated equipment if the owner of the circuit breaker is a Transmission Owner listed in Tariff, 
