[SCHEDULE 9 - Part 2 of 2]

cause beyond the control of the owner or operator of the transmission facility, as specified in the 
relevant portions of the PJM Manuals.  A removal from service of a transmission facility at the 
request of the Office of the Interconnection to improve transmission capability shall not 
constitute a Forced Transmission Outage. 
 
Transmission Injection Rights: 
 
“Transmission Injection Rights” shall mean Capacity Transmission Injection Rights and Energy 
Transmission Injection Rights. 
 
Transmission Interconnection Customer: 
 
“Transmission Interconnection Customer” shall mean an entity that submits an Interconnection 
Request to interconnect or add Merchant Transmission Facilities to the Transmission System or 
to increase the capacity of Merchant Transmission Facilities interconnected with the 
Transmission System in the PJM Region or an entity that submits an Upgrade Request for 
Merchant Network Upgrades (including accelerating the construction of any transmission 
enhancement or expansion, other than Merchant Transmission Facilities, that is included in the 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan prepared pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6). 
 
Transmission Interconnection Facilities Study: 
 
“Transmission Interconnection Facilities Study” shall mean a Facilities Study related to a 
Transmission Interconnection Request. 
 
Transmission Interconnection Feasibility Study: 
 
“Transmission Interconnection Feasibility Study” shall mean a study conducted by the 
Transmission Provider in accordance with Tariff, Part IV, section 36.2. 
 
Transmission Interconnection Request: 
 
“Transmission Interconnection Request” shall mean a request by a Transmission Interconnection 
Customer pursuant to Tariff, Part IV to interconnect or add Merchant Transmission Facilities to 
the Transmission System or to increase the capacity of existing Merchant Transmission Facilities 
interconnected with the Transmission System in the PJM Region. 
 
Transmission Loading Relief: 
 
“Transmission Loading Relief” shall mean NERC’s procedures for preventing operating security 
limit violations, as implemented by PJM as the security coordinator responsible for maintaining 
transmission security for the PJM Region. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 5 
Transmission Loss Charge: 
 
“Transmission Loss Charge” shall mean the charges to each Market Participant, Network 
Customer, or Transmission Customer for the cost of energy lost in the transmission of electricity 
from a generation resource to load as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5, 
and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 5. 
 
Transmission Owner: 
 
“Transmission Owner” shall mean a Member that owns or leases with rights equivalent to 
ownership Transmission Facilities and is a signatory to the PJM Transmission Owners 
Agreement.  Taking transmission service shall not be sufficient to qualify a Member as a 
Transmission Owner. 
 
Transmission Owner Attachment Facilities: 
 
“Transmission Owner Attachment Facilities” shall mean that portion of the Transmission Owner 
Interconnection Facilities comprised of all Attachment Facilities on the Interconnected 
Transmission Owner’s side of the Point of Interconnection.  
 
Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities: 
 
“Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities” shall mean all Interconnection Facilities that 
are not Customer Interconnection Facilities and that, after the transfer under Tariff, Attachment 
P, Appendix 2, section 5.5 to the Interconnected Transmission Owner of title to any 
Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities that the Interconnection Customer constructed, 
are owned, controlled, operated and maintained by the Interconnected Transmission Owner on 
the Interconnected Transmission Owner’s side of the Point of Interconnection identified in 
appendices to the Interconnection Service Agreement and to the Interconnection Construction 
Service Agreement, including any modifications, additions or upgrades made to such facilities 
and equipment, that are necessary to physically and electrically interconnect the Customer 
Facility with the Transmission System or interconnected distribution facilities. 
 
Transmission Owner Upgrade:  
 
“Transmission Owner Upgrade” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating 
Agreement. 
 
Transmission Planned Outage: 
 
“Transmission Planned Outage” shall mean any transmission outage scheduled in advance for a 
pre-determined duration and which meets the notification requirements for such outages 
specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix or the PJM Manuals. 
 
Transmission Provider: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 6 
 
The “Transmission Provider” shall be the Office of the Interconnection for all purposes, provided 
that the Transmission Owners will have the responsibility for the following specified activities: 
 
(a) The Office of the Interconnection shall direct the operation and coordinate the 
maintenance of the Transmission System, except that the Transmission Owners will continue to 
direct the operation and maintenance of those transmission facilities that are not listed in the PJM 
Designated Facilities List contained in the PJM Manual on Transmission Operations; 
 
(b) Each Transmission Owner shall physically operate and maintain all of the facilities that it 
owns; and 
 
(c) When studies conducted by the Office of the Interconnection indicate that enhancements 
or modifications to the Transmission System are necessary, the Transmission Owners shall have 
the responsibility, in accordance with the applicable terms of the Tariff, Operating Agreement 
and/or the Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement to construct, own, and finance the 
needed facilities or enhancements or modifications to facilities. 
 
Transmission Provider’s Monthly Transmission System Peak: 
 
“Transmission Provider’s Monthly Transmission System Peak” shall mean the maximum firm 
usage of the Transmission Provider’s Transmission System in a calendar month. 
 
Transmission Service: 
 
“Transmission Service” shall mean Point-To-Point Transmission Service provided under Tariff, 
Part II on a firm and non-firm basis. 
 
Transmission Service Request: 
 
“Transmission Service Request” shall mean a request for Firm Point-To-Point Transmission 
Service or a request for Network Integration Transmission Service. 
 
Transmission System: 
 
“Transmission System” shall mean the facilities controlled or operated by the Transmission 
Provider within the PJM Region that are used to provide transmission service under Tariff, Part 
II and Part III. 
 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights: 
 
“Transmission Withdrawal Rights” shall mean Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights and Non-
Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights. 
 
Turn Down Ratio: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 7 
“Turn Down Ratio” shall mean the ratio of a generating unit’s economic maximum megawatts to 
its economic minimum megawatts. 
 
Unconstrained LDA Group: 
 
“Unconstrained LDA Group” shall mean a combined group of LDAs that form an electrically 
contiguous area and for which a separate Variable Resource Requirement Curve has not been 
established under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.10.  Any LDA for which a separate Variable 
Resource Requirement Curve has not been established under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 
5.10 shall be combined with all other such LDAs that form an electrically contiguous area. 
 
Unforced Capacity: 
 
“Unforced Capacity” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Unsecured Credit: 
  
“Unsecured Credit” shall mean any credit granted by PJMSettlement to a Participant that is not 
secured by Collateral. 
 
Unsecured Credit Allowance: 
  
“Unsecured Credit Allowance” shall mean Unsecured Credit extended by PJMSettlement in an 
amount determined by PJMSettlement’s evaluation of the creditworthiness of a Participant.  This 
is also defined as the amount of credit that a Participant qualifies for based on the strength of its 
own financial condition without having to provide Collateral.  See also: “Working Credit Limit.” 
 
Updated VRR Curve: 
 
“Updated VRR Curve” shall mean the Variable Resource Requirement Curve for use in the Base 
Residual Auction of the relevant Delivery Year, updated to reflect any change in the Reliability 
Requirement from the Base Residual Auction to such Incremental Auction, and for Delivery 
Years through May 31, 2018, the Short-term Resource Procurement Target applicable to the 
relevant Incremental Auction. 
 
Updated VRR Curve Decrement: 
 
“Updated VRR Curve Decrement” shall mean the portion of the Updated VRR Curve to the left 
of a vertical line at the level of Unforced Capacity on the x-axis of such curve equal to the net 
Unforced Capacity committed to the PJM Region as a result of all prior auctions conducted for 
such Delivery Year and adjusted, if applicable, by a change in Unforced Capacity commitments 
associated with the transition provision of Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14C, Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.14D (as related to the 2016/2017 Delivery Year), Tariff, Attachment 
DD, section 5.14E, and Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.5A(c)(i)(B), and RAA, Schedule 6, 
section L.9.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 8 
Updated VRR Curve Increment: 
 
“Updated VRR Curve Increment” shall mean the portion of the Updated VRR Curve to the right 
of a vertical line at the level of Unforced Capacity on the x-axis of such curve equal to the net 
Unforced Capacity committed to the PJM Region as a result of all prior auctions conducted for 
such Delivery Year and adjusted, if applicable, by a change in Unforced Capacity commitments 
associated with the transition provision of Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.14C, Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.14D (as related to the 2016/2017 Delivery Year), Tariff, Attachment 
DD, section 5.14E and Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.5A(c)(i)(B), and RAA, Schedule 6, 
section L.9. 
 
Upgrade Construction Service Agreement: 
 
“Upgrade Construction Service Agreement” shall mean that agreement entered into by an 
Eligible Customer, Upgrade Customer or Interconnection Customer proposing Merchant 
Network Upgrades, a Transmission Owner, and the Transmission Provider, pursuant to Tariff, 
Part VI, Subpart B, and in the form set forth in Tariff, Attachment GG. 
 
Upgrade Customer: 
 
“Upgrade Customer” shall mean a customer that submits an Upgrade Request pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.8, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 7.8. 
 
Upgrade Feasibility Study: 
 
“Upgrade Feasibility Study” shall mean a study conducted by the Transmission Provider in 
accordance with Tariff, Part IV, section 36.3. 
 
Upgrade-Related Rights: 
 
“Upgrade-Related Rights” shall mean Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, Incremental 
Available Transfer Capability Revenue Rights, Incremental Deliverability Rights, and 
Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights. 
 
Upgrade Request: 
 
“Upgrade Request” shall mean a request submitted in the form prescribed in Tariff, Attachment 
EE, for evaluation by the Transmission Provider of the feasibility and estimated costs of (a) a 
Merchant Network Upgrade or (b) the Customer-Funded Upgrades that would be needed to 
provide Incremental Auction Revenue Rights specified in a request pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.8, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 7.8. 
 
Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transaction: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 9 
“Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transaction” shall mean an Up-to Congestion Transaction will 
be deemed an Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transaction if the following value is negative:  (a) 
when bidding, the lower of the bid price and the prior Up-to Congestion Historical Month’s 
average real-time value for the transaction; or (b) for cleared Virtual Transactions, the cleared 
day-ahead price of the Virtual Transactions. 
 
Up-to Congestion Historical Month: 
 
“Up-to Congestion Historical Month” shall mean a consistently-defined historical period 
nominally one month long that is as close to a calendar month as PJM determines is practical. 
 
Up-to Congestion Prevailing Flow Transaction: 
 
An Up-to Congestion Transaction shall mean an “Up-to Congestion Prevailing Flow 
Transaction” if it is not an Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transaction. 
 
Up-to Congestion Reference Price: 
 
“Up-to Congestion Reference Price” for an Up-to Congestion Transaction, shall be the specified 
percentile price differential between source and sink (defined as sink price minus source price) 
for real-time prices experienced over the prior Up-to Congestion Historical Month, averaged 
with the same percentile value calculated for the second prior Up-to Congestion Historical 
Month.  Up-to Congestion Reference Prices shall be calculated using the following historical 
percentiles: 
 For Up-to Congestion Prevailing Flow Transactions: 30 th percentile 
 For Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transactions when bid:  20 th percentile 
 For Up-to Congestion Counterflow Transactions when cleared:  5 th percentile 
 
Up-to Congestion Transaction: 
 
“Up-to Congestion Transaction” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 1.10.1A, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 1.10.1A. 
 
Variable Loads: 
“Variable Loads” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 
1.5A.6, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.5A.6. 
 
Variable Resource Requirement Curve:  
 
“Variable Resource Requirement Curve” shall mean a series of maximum prices that can be 
cleared in a Base Residual Auction for Unforced Capacity, corresponding to a series of varying 
resource requirements based on varying installed reserve margins, as determined by the Office of 
the Interconnection for the PJM Region and for certain Locational Deliverability Areas in 
accordance with the methodology provided in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 10 
Virtual Credit Exposure:  
“Virtual Credit Exposure” shall mean the amount of potential credit exposure created by a 
market participant’s bid submitted into the Day-ahead market, as defined in Tariff, Attachment 
Q. 
 
Virtual Transaction: 
 
“Virtual Transaction” shall mean a Decrement Bid, Increment Offer and/or Up-to Congestion 
Transaction. 
 
Virtual Transaction Screening: 
  
“Virtual Transaction Screening” shall be the process of reviewing the Virtual Credit Exposure of 
submitted Virtual Transactions against the Credit Available for Virtual Transactions.  If the 
credit required is greater than credit available, then the Virtual Transactions will not be accepted. 
 
Virtual Transactions Net Activity: 
 
“Virtual Transactions Net Activity” shall mean the aggregate net total, resulting from Virtual 
Transactions, of (i) Spot Market Energy charges, (ii) Transmission Congestion Charges, and (iii) 
Transmission Loss Charges, calculated as set forth in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, and the 
parallel provisions of Operating Agreement, Schedule 1.  Virtual Transactions Net Activity may 
be positive or negative. 
 
Voltage Reduction Action: 
 
“Voltage Reduction Action” shall mean a notification during capacity deficient conditions in 
which PJM notifies Members to reduce voltage on the distribution system in order to reduce 
demand and therefore provide a sufficient amount of reserves, maintain tie flow schedules and 
preserve limited energy sources. 
 
Voltage Reduction Alert: 
 
“Voltage Reduction Alert” shall mean a notification from PJM to alert Members that a voltage 
reduction may be required during a future critical period. 
 
Voltage Reduction Warning: 
 
“Voltage Reduction Warning” shall mean a notification from PJM to warn Members that PJM’s 
available Synchronized Reserve is less than the Synchronized Reserve Requirement and that 
present operations have deteriorated such that a voltage reduction may be required. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – W – X – Y - Z 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 1 
Definitions – W – X – Y - Z 
 
Wholesale Transaction: 
 
As used in Tariff, Part IV, “Wholesale Transaction” shall mean any transaction involving the 
transmission or sale for resale of electricity in interstate commerce that utilizes any portion of the 
Transmission System. 
 
Winter-Period Capacity Performance Resource: 
 
“Winter-Period Capacity Performance Resource” shall have the same meaning specified in 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.5A. 
 
Working Credit Limit: 
  
“Working Credit Limit” shall mean an amount that is 75% of the Participant’s Unsecured Credit 
Allowance determined by PJMSettlement and/or 75% of the Collateral provided by the  
Participant to PJMSettlement.  A Participant’s Total Net Obligation should not exceed its 
Working Credit Limit. The calculation of Working Credit Limit shall take into account 
applicable reductions for Minimum Participation Requirements, FTR participation (for which 
there is no Unsecured Credit Allowance available), RPM participation, or other credit 
requirement determinants as defined in Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Working Credit Limit for Virtual Transactions: 
 
The “Working Credit Limit for Virtual Transactions” shall be calculated as 75% of the Market 
Participant’s Unsecured Credit Allowance and/or 75% of the Collateral provided by the Market 
Participant to PJMSettlement when the Market Participant is at or below its Peak Market 
Activity credit requirements as specified in Tariff, Attachment Q, section VII.A.  When the 
Market Participant has available Unsecured Credit Allowance and/or has provided Collateral in 
excess of its Peak Market Activity credit requirements, such additional Unsecured Credit 
Allowance and/or Financial Security shall not be discounted by 25% when calculating the 
Working Credit Limit for Virtual Transactions.  The Working Credit Limit for Virtual 
Transactions is a component in the calculation of Credit Available for Virtual Transactions.  The 
calculation of Working Credit Limit for Virtual Transactions shall take into account applicable 
reductions for Minimum Participation Requirements, FTR, or other credit requirement 
determinants as defined in Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Zonal Capacity Price: 
 
“Zonal Capacity Price” shall mean the clearing price required in each Zone to meet the demand 
for Unforced Capacity and satisfy Locational Deliverability Requirements for the LDA or LDAs 
associated with such Zone.  If the Zone contains multiple LDAs with different Capacity 
Resource Clearing Prices, the Zonal Capacity Price shall be a weighted average of the Capacity 
Resource Clearing Prices for such LDAs, weighted by the Unforced Capacity of Capacity 
Resources cleared in each such LDA. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions – W – X – Y - Z 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER22-797-000 - Page 2 
 
Zone or Zonal: 
 
“Zone” or “Zonal” shall mean an area within the PJM Region, as set forth in Tariff, Attachment J 
and RAA, Schedule 15, or as such areas may be (i) combined as a result of mergers or 
acquisitions or (ii) added as a result of the expansion of the boundaries of the PJM Region.  A 
Zone shall include any Non-Zone Network Load located outside the PJM Region that is served 
from such Zone under Tariff, Attachment H-A. 
 
Zone Network Load: 
 
“Zone Network Load” shall mean Network Load that is located inside of the area comprised of 
the PJM Region.  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
2 Initial Allocation and Renewal Procedures 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures --> OATT 2.1 Initial Allocation of Available Transfer Capability 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
2.1 Initial Allocation of Available Transfer Capability: 
 
For purposes of determining whether existing capability on the Transmission Provider’s 
Transmission System is adequate to accommodate a request for firm service under this Tariff, all 
Completed Applications for new firm transmission service received during the initial sixty (60) 
day period commencing with the effective date of the Tariff will be deemed to have been filed 
simultaneously.  A lottery system conducted by an independent party, which shall be the Office 
of the Interconnection, shall be used to assign priorities for Completed Applications filed 
simultaneously.  All Completed Applications for firm transmission service received after the 
initial sixty (60) day period shall be assigned a priority pursuant to Tariff, Part II, section 13.2. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures --> OATT 2.2 Reservation Priority For Existing Firm Service Cust 
Effective Date: 1/15/2024 - Docket #: ER24-402-001 - Page 1 
2.2 Reservation Priority For Existing Firm Cross-Border Network Integration 
Transmission Service and Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service: 
 
Per Tariff, Part I, section 2.5, the reservation priority in this section 2.2 does not apply to 
Regional Network Integration Transmission Service.  This section 2.2 establishes a transmission 
reservation priority for existing Firm Cross-Border Network Integration Transmission Service 
and Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service customers (referred to as “firm service customers” 
for purposes of this section 2.2 and Tariff, Part I, section 2.3). Such existing firm service 
customers of any Transmission Owner (wholesale requirements and transmission-only, with a 
contract term of five-years or more), have the right to continue to take transmission service from 
the Transmission Provider when the contract expires, rolls over or is renewed.  This transmission 
reservation priority is independent of whether the existing customer continues to purchase 
capacity and energy from the Transmission Owner or elects to purchase capacity and energy 
from another supplier.  If at the end of the contract term, the Transmission Provider’s 
Transmission System cannot accommodate all of the requests for transmission service the 
existing firm service customer must agree to accept a contract term at least equal to a competing 
request by any new Eligible Customer and to pay the current just and reasonable rate, as 
approved by the Commission, for such service, provided that, the firm service customer shall 
have a right of first refusal at the end of such service only if the new contract is for five years or 
more.  This transmission reservation priority for existing firm service customers is an ongoing 
right that may be exercised at the end of all firm contract terms of five years or longer.  Service 
Agreements subject to the right of first refusal entered into prior to June 16, 2008 or associated 
with a transmission service request received prior to July 13, 2007, unless terminated, will 
become subject to the five-year/one-year requirement on the first rollover date after June 16, 
2008; provided that, the one-year notice requirement shall apply to such service agreements with 
five years or more left in their terms as of June 16, 2008.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures --> OATT 2.3 Procedures For Exercising Transmission Reservation 
Effective Date: 1/15/2024 - Docket #: ER24-402-001 - Page 1 
2.3 Procedures For Exercising Transmission Reservation Priority Rights: 
 
(a) If, at any time, the Transmission Provider receives a request from an Eligible Customer 
for new firm transmission service that the Transmission Provider determines it could not provide 
without performing a System Impact Study if an existing customer were to exercise its 
transmission reservation priority pursuant to Tariff, Part I, section 2.2, the Transmission Provider 
shall promptly notify the existing customer of the new request.  Within thirty (30) days of such 
notification, the existing customer must inform the Transmission Provider whether it exercises 
its reservation priority pursuant to Tariff, Part I, section 2.2 and agrees to accept a contract term 
at least equal to the new request. In the event an existing customer does not exercise its 
reservation priority or fails to respond within thirty (30) days of such notification, the existing 
firm service customer (as defined above in Tariff, Part I, section 2.2) shall forfeit its reservation 
priority. 
 
(b) In the event an existing firm service customer (as defined above in Tariff, Part I, section 
2.2) does not receive a notification pursuant to section 2.3(a) above, then the existing firm 
service customer (as defined above in Tariff, Part I, section 2.2)must notify Transmission 
Provider no later than one year prior to the end of the term of its firm transmission contract that it 
is exercising its transmission reservation priority and will take transmission service for an 
additional term of five years or longer; otherwise it shall forfeit the transmission reservation 
priority associated with the contract. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures --> OATT 2.4 Reservation Priority For State Required Retail Acce 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-000 - Page 1 
2.4 Reservation Priority For State Required Retail Access Program Load: 
 
When a retail customer’s power supply arrangements expire, roll-over, are renewed, or otherwise 
terminate, a Transmission Customer that will serve that retail power customer pursuant to a state 
required retail access program shall have the right to take transmission service from the 
Transmission Provider pursuant to the same priority accorded the Transmission Customer which 
previously served the retail customer.  This transmission reservation priority is independent of 
whether the retail customer continues to purchase capacity and energy from its then-existing 
supplier or purchases capacity and energy from another supplier. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 2 Initial 
Allocation and Renewal Procedures --> OATT 2.5 Term of Service for Regional NITS 
Effective Date: 1/15/2024 - Docket #: ER24-402-001 - Page 1 
2.5  Term of Service for Regional Network Integration Transmission Service  
 
A Network Customer that takes Regional Network Integration Transmission Service from the 
Transmission Provider takes such service on terms that do not expire. The provisions relating to 
reservation priority and rollover rights in Tariff, Part I, section 2.2 and Tariff, Part I, section 2.3, 
above, are inapplicable to such customers.  
 
Although Regional Network Integration Transmission Service is presumed to continue without 
expiration, it may be terminated where:  
 
1) An incumbent Network Customer will be replaced by a successor Network Customer, 
in which case the incumbent’s service shall only terminate if the successor agrees to 
commence the taking of the service, the appropriate service agreement is executed, 
and all other applicable terms and conditions of the PJM Governing Agreements are 
satisfied;  
2) An incumbent Network Customer seeks to terminate its service and no successor 
Network Customer exists, in which case the incumbent must provide PJM with forty-
two (42) months’ notice prior to the commencement of a Delivery Year, subject to 
receiving all necessary regulatory approvals for such termination, if any; or  
3) On such other date mutually agreed upon by the parties.  
 
Transmission Service Agreements in the form of Tariff, Attachment F, with terms that are related 
to Regional Network Integration Transmission Service, and which are in effect at the time this 
section 2.5 becomes effective shall be deemed to be revised to include terms set forth in this 
section 2.5. Such revisions shall be in the same manner and to the same extent as agreements 
entered after the effective date of this section 2.5 and the modifications to Tariff, Attachment F 
and Tariff, Attachment F-3. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3 Ancillary Services 
 
Ancillary Services are needed with transmission service to maintain reliability within and among 
the Control Areas affected by the transmission service.  The Transmission Provider is required to 
provide (or offer to arrange with the local Control Area operator as discussed below), and the 
Transmission Customer is required to purchase, the following Ancillary Services (i) Scheduling, 
System Control and Dispatch, and (ii) Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation or 
Other Sources. 
 
The Transmission Provider is required to offer to provide (or offer to arrange with the local 
Control Area operator as discussed below) the following Ancillary Services only to the 
Transmission Customer serving load within the Transmission Provider’s Control Area (i) 
Regulation and Frequency Response, (ii) Energy Imbalance, (iii) Operating Reserve -
Synchronized, and (iv) Operating Reserve - Supplemental.  Subject to the provisions of Tariff, 
Schedules 1 through 6, the Transmission Customer serving load within the Transmission 
Provider’s Control Area is required to acquire these Ancillary Services, whether from the 
Transmission Provider, from a third party, or by self-supply.  The Transmission Provider shall 
administer the purchases by Transmission Customers of these Ancillary Services.  
PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the Ancillary Services provided to the Transmission 
Customer; provided, however, that PJMSettlement shall not be the contracting party to bilateral 
transactions between market participants or with respect to a self-schedule or self-supply relating 
to Ancillary Services.  The Transmission Customer may not decline the Transmission Provider’s 
offer of Ancillary Services unless it demonstrates that it has acquired the Ancillary Services from 
another source.  The Transmission Customer must list in its Application which Ancillary 
Services it will purchase from the Transmission Provider.  A Transmission Customer that 
exceeds its firm reserved capacity at any Point of Receipt or Point of Delivery or an Eligible 
Customer that uses Transmission Service at a Point of Receipt or Point of Delivery that it has not 
reserved is required to pay for all of the Ancillary Services identified in this section that were 
provided by the Transmission Provider associated with the unreserved service.  The 
Transmission Customer or Eligible Customer will pay for Ancillary Services based on the 
amount of transmission service it used but did not reserve. 
 
If the Transmission Provider is a public utility providing transmission service but is not a Control 
Area operator, it may be unable to provide some or all of the Ancillary Services.  In this case, the 
Transmission Provider can fulfill its obligation to provide Ancillary Services by acting as the 
Transmission Customer’s agent to secure these Ancillary Services from the Control Area 
operator.  The Transmission Customer may elect to (i) have the Transmission Provider act as its 
agent, (ii) secure the Ancillary Services directly from the Control Area operator, or (iii) secure 
the Ancillary Services (discussed in Tariff, Schedule 3, Tariff, Schedule 4, Tariff, Schedule 5 
and Tariff, Schedule 6) from a third party or by self-supply when technically feasible.  The 
Transmission Provider shall specify the rate treatment and all related terms and conditions in the 
event of an unauthorized use of Ancillary Services by the Transmission Customer. 
 
The specific Ancillary Services, prices and/or compensation methods are described on the 
Schedules that are attached to and made a part of the Tariff.  Three principal requirements apply 
to discounts for Ancillary Service provided by the Transmission Provider in conjunction with its 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 2 
provision of transmission services as follows:  (1) any offer of a discount made by the 
Transmission Provider must be announced to all Eligible Customers solely by posting on the 
OASIS, (2) any customer-initiated requests for discounts (including requests for use by one’s 
wholesale merchant or an Affiliate’s use) must occur solely by posting on the OASIS, and (3) 
once a discount is negotiated, details must be immediately posted on the OASIS.  A discount 
agreed upon for an Ancillary Service must be offered for the same period to all Eligible 
Customers on the Transmission Provider’s system.  Tariff, Part I, sections 3.1 through 3.6 below 
list the six Ancillary Services. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.1 Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Services 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3.1 Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Services: 
 
The rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 1 and Tariff, Schedule 1A. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.2 Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3.2 Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation or Other Sources Service: 
 
The rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 2. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.3 Regulation and Frequency Response Service 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3.3 Regulation and Frequency Response Service: 
 
Where applicable the rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 3. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.4 Energy Imbalance Service 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3.4 Energy Imbalance Service: 
 
Where applicable the rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 4. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.5 Operating Reserve - Synchronized Reserve Service 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3.5 Operating Reserve - Synchronized Reserve Service: 
 
Where applicable the rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 5. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3 
Ancillary Services --> OATT 3.6 Operating Reserve - Supplemental Reserve Service 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3.6 Operating Reserve - Supplemental Reserve Service: 
 
Where applicable the rates and/or methodology are described in Tariff, Schedule 6. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3B PJM 
Administrative Service 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3B PJM Administrative Service 
 
The Transmission Provider shall recover the costs of the operation of PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. and the Office of the Interconnection from Transmission Customers, and from other users 
of the various PJM services, under Tariff, Schedule 9 “PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. 
Administrative Services”. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3C Mid-
Atlantic Area Council Charge 
Effective Date: 7/18/2012 - Docket #: ER12-1784-000 - Page 1 
3C [RESERVED] 
 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3D 
Transitional Market Expansion Charge 
Effective Date: 7/14/2011 - Docket #: ER11-4040-000 - Page 1 
3D [Reserved]   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 3E
 Transmission Enhancement Charges 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
3E Transmission Enhancement Charges 
 
The Transmission Provider shall collect from designated customers using Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service and Network Integration Transmission Service the charges of 
Transmission Owners related to the costs of Required Transmission Enhancements under Tariff, 
