SCHEDULE 9 
PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. Administrative Services 
 
a) PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. is the Transmission Provider under this Tariff.  It also 
operates the PJM Interchange Energy Market as described in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix 
and provides various other services to market participants.  The cost of operating the PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., including principal and/or depreciation expense, interest expense and 
financing costs, excluding any costs specifically recovered pursuant to other provisions of this 
Tariff as identified in this Schedule 9, shall be recovered from users of the various PJM services 
pursuant to the rates set forth in this Schedule 9 and its subsidiary Schedules which correspond to 
categories of services (“Service Categories”) provided by PJM.  The charge in any month to any 
user of PJM's services under this Schedule 9 is the sum of the charges under the following 
subsidiary Schedules of this Schedule 9 to the extent determined to be applicable by the 
Transmission Provider to such user in such month: 
 
 Tariff, Schedule 9-1:  “Control Area Administration Service” 
 Tariff, Schedule 9-2:  “Financial Transmission Rights Administration Service” 
 Tariff, Schedule 9-3:  “Market Support Service” 
 Tariff, Schedule 9-4:  “Capacity Resource and Obligation Management Service” 
 
b) The rates, terms, conditions, and applicability of these subsidiary services of this 
Schedule 9 are set forth on the subsidiary Schedules of this Schedule 9.  These rates and charges 
do not include the charges for PJMSettlement services to Transmission Customers and Market 
Participants.  The charges for PJMSettlement services to Transmission Customers and Market 
Participants are set forth in Tariff, Schedule 9-PJMSettlement.     
 
c) This Schedule 9 also includes a subsidiary Schedule 9-5, “Management Services Cost,” 
which shall govern the determination and allocation of certain overhead and administrative costs 
among subsidiary Schedules 9-1 through 9-4. 
 
d) Each of the subsidiary Schedules 9-1 through 9-4 of this Schedule 9 contains a formula 
for determination of the rate or charge thereunder.  The rates and charges for Schedules 9-1 
through 9-4 shall be determined monthly based on the costs incurred in such month, pursuant to 
the formulas set forth in such schedule.   
 
e) (1)  PJM shall allocate to each subsidiary Schedule PJM’s Actual Costs and expenses 
accounted for in all of PJM’s Divisions based on the allocation percentage stated in the rate 
formula in Schedules 9-1 through 9-4 and Schedule 9-PJMSettlement.   
 
(2)  In addition to such costs, each month, PJM shall assign to each such Schedule its appropriate 
share of certain costs and expenses that are not assigned to any Division (“Non-Divisional 
Costs”), including, but not limited to, Actual Costs associated with (i) financial costs; (ii) 
operating projects or portions of operating projects; and (iii) capital projects.  The assignment of 
financial costs shall be based on PJM’s assignment of its assets among such Schedules.  PJM 
shall assign to each Schedule each month a proportion of the total amounts for such financial 
costs equal to the proportion of (iii) the projected gross value of the assets assigned to such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 9 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2316-000 - Page 2 
Schedule to (iv) the projected gross value of all assets of PJM that are assigned to any subsidiary 
schedule of this Schedule 9, as of the final day of the month for which the rates are applicable.  
The assignment of operating projects and expenses related to capital projects shall be on the 
basis of the service for which such projects are instituted.   
 
(3)  PJM shall not recover through this Schedule 9 or its subsidiary Schedules any costs for 
services provided by PJM in response to specific requests, pursuant to this Tariff, of specific 
identified entities, including, but not limited to, System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies, to 
the extent such costs are specifically recovered pursuant to other provisions of this Tariff. 
 
f) In addition to subsidiary Tariff, Schedules 9-1 through 9-5, this Schedule 9 also includes 
the following separate subsidiary schedules:  (i) Tariff, Schedule 9-FERC, which is designed to 
recover Transmission Provider’s costs for the annual charges assessed on Transmission Provider 
by FERC; (ii) Tariff, Schedule 9-OPSI, which is designed to recover Transmission Provider’s 
payments to the Organization of PJM States, Inc.; (iii) Tariff, Schedule 9-CAPS, which is 
designed to recover Consumer Advocates of PJM States, Inc. costs; (iv) Tariff, Schedule 9-
MMU which is designed to recover the cost of providing market monitoring functions to the 
PJM Region; (v) Tariff, Schedule 9-FINCON, which is designed to recover Transmission 
Provider’s costs of outside consultants engaged by the Finance Committee, and (vi) Tariff, 
Schedule 9-PJMSettlement, which is designed to recover PJM Settlement, Inc.’s costs. 
 
g) Each month PJM shall post on its website the rates charged under this Schedule 9, 
including Schedules 9-1 through 9-4, and the separate subsidiary schedules listed above in 
subsection (f).  PJM shall also post each month on its website the rates charged under Schedule 
10-NERC and Schedule 10-RFC.   
 
h) As used in this Schedule 9 and in the subsidiary Schedules of this Schedule 9, the 
following terms shall have the following meanings: 
 
(1) “Actual Costs” shall mean costs, expenses, disbursements and other amounts 
incurred (whether paid or accrued); and 
 
(2) “Divisions” shall mean the various corporate cost centers within PJM. 
 
i) All amounts held in reserve pursuant to this Schedule 9 and all subsidiary Schedules as of 
December 31, 2021, shall be refunded over the applicable billing determinant volumes in the first 
calendar quarter of 2022 through credits to charges to then-current customers under such 
schedules of Tariff, Schedules 9-1 through 9-5 (as in effect prior to January 1, 2022) for which 
cumulative revenues for such schedule over the prior 12-month period ending December 31, 
2021 exceeded (by any amount) the cumulative expenses for such schedule (consistent with 
those reported or to be reported to the Finance Committee) over such 12-month period, and 
apportioned among such Schedules with refunds based on the ratio of each such Schedule’s 
excess revenues to the sum of the excess revenues of all Schedules that had excess revenues for 
such 12-month period; provided, however, the amount to be refunded associated with Schedule 
9-3 (as in effect prior to January 1, 2022) shall be adjusted by any regulatory asset or regulatory 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 9 
Effective Date: 2/1/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2316-000 - Page 3 
liability balance recorded pursuant to Schedule 9-PJMSettlement as of December 31, 2021.  The 
reserve shall be reduced to zero dollars.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 9-1 
Effective Date: 1/1/2022 - Docket #: ER22-26-000 - Page 1 
