[SCHEDULE 7 - Part 3 of 3]

under normal operating conditions. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 1 
Definitions – O – P - Q 
 
Obligation: 
  
“Obligation” shall mean all amounts owed to PJMSettlement for purchases from the PJM 
Markets, Transmission Service, (under both Tariff, Part II and Tariff, Part III), and other services 
or obligations pursuant to the Agreements.  In addition, aggregate amounts that will be owed to 
PJMSettlement in the future for capacity purchases within the PJM capacity markets will be 
added to this figure.  Should other markets be formed such that Participants may incur future 
Obligations in those markets, then the aggregate amount of those Obligations will also be added 
to the Net Obligation. 
 
Offer Data: 
 
“Offer Data” shall mean the scheduling, operations planning, dispatch, new resource, and other 
data and information necessary to schedule and dispatch generation resources and Demand 
Resource(s) for the provision of energy and other services and the maintenance of the reliability 
and security of the Transmission System in the PJM Region, and specified for submission to the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market for such purposes by the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
Office of the Interconnection: 
 
“Office of the Interconnection” shall mean the employees and agents of PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. subject to the supervision and oversight of the PJM Board, acting pursuant to the 
Operating Agreement. 
 
Office of the Interconnection Control Center: 
 
“Office of the Interconnection Control Center” shall mean the equipment, facilities and 
personnel used by the Office of the Interconnection to coordinate and direct the operation of the 
PJM Region and to administer the PJM Interchange Energy Market, including facilities and 
equipment used to communicate and coordinate with the Market Participants in connection with 
transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market or the operation of the PJM Region. 
 
On-Site Generators: 
 
“On-Site Generators” shall mean generation facilities (including Behind The Meter Generation) 
that (i) are not Capacity Resources, (ii) are not injecting into the grid, (iii) are either 
synchronized or non-synchronized to the Transmission System, and (iv) can be used to reduce 
demand for the purpose of participating in the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS) or PJM Open Access Same-Time 
Information System: 
 
“Open Access Same-Time Information System,” “PJM Open Access Same-Time Information 
System” or “OASIS” shall mean the electronic communication and information system and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 2 
standards of conduct contained in Part 37 and Part 38 of the Commission’s regulations and all 
additional requirements implemented by subsequent Commission orders dealing with OASIS for 
the collection and dissemination of information about transmission services in the PJM Region, 
established and operated by the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with FERC 
standards and requirements. 
 
Open-Loop Hybrid Resource: 
 
“Open-Loop Hybrid Resource” shall mean a Hybrid Resource with a storage component that 
operates by charging its storage component from the grid. 
 
Operating Agreement of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., Operating Agreement or PJM 
Operating Agreement: 
 
“Operating Agreement of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.,”  “Operating Agreement” or “PJM 
Operating Agreement” shall mean the Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C. dated as of April 1, 1997 and as amended and restated as of June 2, 
1997, including all Schedules, Exhibits, Appendices, addenda or supplements hereto, as amended 
from time to time thereafter, among the Members of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., on file 
with the Commission. 
 
Operating Day: 
 
“Operating Day” shall mean the daily 24 hour period beginning at midnight for which 
transactions on the PJM Interchange Energy Market are scheduled. 
 
Operating Margin: 
 
“Operating Margin” shall mean the incremental adjustments, measured in megawatts, required in 
PJM Region operations in order to accommodate, on a first contingency basis, an operating 
contingency in the PJM Region resulting from operations in an interconnected Control Area.  
Such adjustments may result in constraints causing Transmission Congestion Charges, or may 
result in Ancillary Services charges pursuant to the PJM Tariff. 
 
Operating Margin Customer: 
 
“Operating Margin Customer” shall mean a Control Area purchasing Operating Margin pursuant 
to an agreement between such other Control Area and the LLC. 
 
Operating Reserve Demand Curve: 
 
“Operating Reserve Demand Curve” shall mean a curve with prices on the y-axis and megawatts 
on the x-axis, which defines the relationship between each incremental megawatt of reserves that 
can be used to meet a given reserve requirement. 
 
Operationally Deliverable: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 3 
 
“Operationally Deliverable” shall mean, as determined by the Office of the Interconnection, that 
there are no operational conditions, arrangements or limitations experienced or required that 
threaten, impair or degrade effectuation or maintenance of deliverability of capacity or energy 
from the external Generation Capacity Resource to loads in the PJM Region in a manner 
comparable to the deliverability of capacity or energy to such loads from Generation Capacity 
Resources located inside the metered boundaries of the PJM Region, including, without 
limitation, an identified need by an external Balancing Authority Area for a remedial action 
scheme or manual generation trip protocol, transmission facility switching arrangements  that 
would have the effect of radializing load, or excessive or unacceptable frequency of regional 
reliability limit violations or (outside an interregional agreed congestion management process) of 
local reliability dispatch instructions and commitments. 
 
Opportunity Cost: 
 
“Opportunity Cost” shall mean a component of the Market Seller Offer Cap calculated in 
accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6. 
 
OPSI Advisory Committee: 
 
“OPSI Advisory Committee” shall mean the committee established under Tariff, Attachment M, 
section III.G. 
 
Option to Build: 
 
“Option to Build” shall mean the option of the New Service Customer to build certain Customer-
Funded Upgrades, as set forth in, and subject to the terms of, the Construction Service 
Agreement. 
 
Optional Interconnection Study: 
 
“Optional Interconnection Study” shall mean a sensitivity analysis of an Interconnection Request 
based on assumptions specified by the Interconnection Customer in the Optional Interconnection 
Study Agreement. 
 
Optional Interconnection Study Agreement: 
 
“Optional Interconnection Study Agreement” shall mean the form of agreement for preparation 
of an Optional Interconnection Study, as set forth in Tariff, Attachment N-3. 
 
Part I: 
 
“Part I” shall mean the Tariff Definitions and Common Service Provisions contained in Tariff, 
Part I, sections 1 through 12A. 
 
Part II: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 4 
 
“Part II” shall mean Tariff, Part II, sections 13 through 27A pertaining to Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service in conjunction with the applicable Common Service Provisions of Tariff, 
Part I and appropriate Schedules and Attachments. 
 
Part III: 
 
“Part III” shall mean Tariff, Part III, sections 28 through 35 pertaining to Network Integration 
Transmission Service in conjunction with the applicable Common Service Provisions of Tariff, 
Part I and appropriate Schedules and Attachments. 
 
Part IV: 
 
“Part IV” shall mean Tariff, Part IV, sections 36 through 112C pertaining to generation or 
merchant transmission interconnection to the Transmission System in conjunction with the 
applicable Common Service Provisions of Tariff, Part I and appropriate Schedules and 
Attachments. 
 
Part V: 
 
“Part V” shall mean Tariff, Part V, sections 113 through 122 pertaining to the deactivation of 
generating units in conjunction with the applicable Common Service Provisions of Tariff, Part I 
and appropriate Schedules and Attachments. 
 
Part VI: 
 
“Part VI” shall mean Tariff, Part VI, sections 200 through 237 pertaining to the queuing, study, 
and agreements relating to New Service Requests, and the rights associated with Customer-
Funded Upgrades in conjunction with the applicable Common Service Provisions of Tariff, Part I 
and appropriate Schedules and Attachments. 
 
Participant: 
  
“Participant” shall mean a Market Participant and/or Transmission Customer and/or Applicant 
requesting to be an active Market Participant and/or Transmission Customer. 
 
Parties: 
 
“Parties” shall mean the Transmission Provider, as administrator of the Tariff, and the 
Transmission Customer receiving service under the Tariff.  PJMSettlement shall be the 
Counterparty to Transmission Customers. 
 
Peak-Hour Dispatch: 
 
“Peak-Hour Dispatch” shall mean, for purposes of calculating the Energy and Ancillary Services 
Revenue Offset under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5, an assumption, as more fully set forth in 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 5 
the PJM Manuals, that the Reference Resource is committed in the Day-ahead Energy Market in 
four distinct blocks of four hours of continuous output for each block from the peak-hour period 
beginning with the hour ending 0800 EPT through to the hour ending 2300 EPT for any day 
when the average day-ahead LMP for the area for which the Net Cost of New Entry is being 
determined is greater than, or equal to, the cost to generate (including the cost for a complete 
start and shutdown cycle), plus 10% of such costs only for the 2022/2023 Delivery Year, for at 
least two hours during each four-hour block, where such blocks shall be assumed to be  
committed independently; provided that, if there are not at least two economic hours in any given 
four-hour block, then the Reference Resource shall be assumed not to be committed for such 
block; and to the extent not committed in any such block in the Day-ahead Energy Market under 
the above conditions based on Day-Ahead LMPs, is dispatched in the Real-time Energy Market 
for such block if the Real-Time LMP is greater than or equal to the cost to generate, plus 10% of 
such costs only for the 2022/2023 Delivery Year, under the same conditions as described above 
for the Day-ahead Energy Market. 
 
Peak Market Activity:   
 
“Peak Market Activity” shall mean a measure of exposure for which credit is required, calculated 
in accordance with Tariff, Attachment Q, section VII.A.  
 
Peak Market Activity Shortfall: 
 
“Peak Market Activity Shortfall” shall mean, for any given week, the amount by which a 
Participant’s current Peak Market Activity exceeds such Participant’s Peak Market Activity 
credit requirement from the prior week. 
 
Peak Market Activity Surplus: 
 
“Peak Market Activity Surplus” shall mean, for any given week, the amount by which a 
Participant’s Peak Market Activity credit requirement from the prior week exceeds such 
Participant’s current Peak Market Activity. 
 
Peak Season: 
 
“Peak Season” shall mean the weeks containing the 24th through 36th Wednesdays of the 
calendar year.  Each such week shall begin on a Monday and end on the following Sunday, 
except for the week containing the 36th Wednesday, which shall end on the following Friday. 
 
Percentage Internal Resources Required: 
 
“Percentage Internal Resources Required” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Performance Assessment Interval: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 6 
“Performance Assessment Interval” shall mean each Real-time Settlement Interval for which an 
Emergency Action has been declared by the Office of the Interconnection, provided, however, 
that Performance Assessment Intervals for a Base Capacity Resource shall not include any 
intervals outside the calendar months of June through September. 
 
Permissible Technological Advancement: 
 
“Permissible Technological Advancement” shall mean a proposed technological change such as 
an advancement to turbines, inverters, plant supervisory controls or other similar advancements 
to the technology proposed in the Interconnection Request that is submitted to the Transmission 
Provider no later than the return of an executed Facilities Study Agreement (or, if a Facilities 
Study is not required, prior to the return of an executed Interconnection Service Agreement).  
Provided such change may not:  (i) increase the capability of the Generating Facility as specified 
in the original Interconnection Request; (ii) represent a different fuel type from the original 
Interconnection Request; or (iii) cause any material adverse impact(s) on the Transmission 
System with regard to short circuit capability limits, steady-state thermal and voltage limits, or 
dynamic system stability and response.  If the proposed technological advancement is a 
Permissible Technological Advancement, no additional study will be necessary and the proposed 
technological advancement will not be considered a Material Modification. 
 
PJM:   
 
“PJM” shall mean PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., including the Office of the Interconnection as 
referenced in the PJM Operating Agreement.  When such term is being used in the RAA it shall 
also include the PJM Board. 
 
PJM Administrative Service: 
 
“PJM Administrative Service” shall mean the services provided by PJM pursuant to Tariff, 
