SCHEDULE 9-FINCON 
Finance Committee Retained Outside Consultant 
 
In discharging its rights and responsibilities, as defined and described in the PJM Operating 
Agreement, the Finance Committee may engage one or more consultants.  A consultant so 
engaged shall have access to the same information provided to the Finance Committee under the 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Finance Committee.  The scope and budget for such 
consultant services shall be subject to approval by the Members Committee.  If approved, the 
fees, expenses and delivery of services by the consultant shall be managed by the Finance 
Committee and paid for by PJM pursuant to this Schedule.  Pursuant to this Schedule, PJM shall 
collect revenues not to exceed $100,000 (plus any interest actually accrued) at any one time; and 
the amount all such consultants will be paid shall not exceed $100,000 in any one calendar year.   
 
This Schedule will become effective upon acceptance by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission. 
 
The rate (“FINCON rate”) described below will be assessed monthly. 
 
PJM will pay consultant fees and expenses promptly for Finance Committee consulting 
engagements that have received the approval of the Members Committee.   
 
FINCON rate is as follows: 
 
FINCON rate = FINCON Revenues Amount * Customer Allocation. 
 
Where: 
 
FINCON Revenues Amount is an amount to be established by the Finance Committee up to 
$100,000; and 
 
Customer Allocation is the total monthly quantity of transmission usage of the Transmission 
Customer divided by the total quantity in MWhs of energy delivered under Point-to-Point and 
Network Integration Transmission Service during the month subsequent to the month in which 
the Members Committee approves the Finance Committee’s proposed consultant engagement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 9-MMU 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
