Schedule 1, section 1.9.2 or Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 1.9.4, and the parallel 
provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.9.2 or Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 1.9.4. 
 
Affected System: 
 
“Affected System” shall mean an electric system other than the Transmission Provider’s 
Transmission System that may be affected by a proposed interconnection or on which a proposed 
interconnection or addition of facilities or upgrades may require modifications or upgrades to the 
Transmission System. 
 
Affected System Operator: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 2 
“Affected System Operator” shall mean an entity that operates an Affected System or, if the 
Affected System is under the operational control of an independent system operator or a regional 
transmission organization, such independent entity. 
 
Affiliate: 
 
“Affiliate” shall mean any two or more entities, one of which Controls the other or that are under 
common Control.  “Control,” as that term is used in this definition, shall mean the possession, 
directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or policies of an entity.  Ownership 
of publicly-traded equity securities of another entity shall not result in Control or affiliation for 
purposes of the Tariff or Operating Agreement if the securities are held as an investment, the 
holder owns (in its name or via intermediaries) less than 10 percent (10%) of the outstanding 
securities of the entity, the holder does not have representation on the entity’s board of directors 
(or equivalent managing entity) or vice versa, and the holder does not in fact exercise influence 
over day-to-day management decisions.  Unless the contrary is demonstrated to the satisfaction 
of the Members Committee, Control shall be presumed to arise from the ownership of or the 
power to vote, directly or indirectly, ten percent or more of the voting securities of such entity. 
 
Agreements: 
 
“Agreements” shall mean the Amended and Restated Operating Agreement of PJM 
Interconnection, L.L.C., the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement, and/or other agreements between PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. and its Members. 
 
Ambient-Adjusted Rating: 
 
“Ambient-Adjusted Rating” (AAR) shall mean a Transmission Facility Rating that:  
 
(a) Applies to a time period of not greater than one hour. 
(b) Reflects an up-to-date forecast of ambient air temperature across the time period to 
which the rating applies. 
(c) Reflects the absence of solar heating during nighttime periods, where the local 
sunrise/sunset times used to determine daytime and nighttime periods are updated at 
least monthly, if not more frequently. 
(d) Is evaluated at least each hour, if not more frequently.   
 
Ancillary Services: 
 
“Ancillary Services” shall mean those services that are necessary to support the transmission of 
capacity and energy from resources to loads while maintaining reliable operation of the 
Transmission Provider’s Transmission System in accordance with Good Utility Practice. 
 
Annual Demand Resource: 
 
“Annual Demand Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 3 
 
Annual Energy Efficiency Resource: 
 
“Annual Energy Efficiency Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Annual Resource:  
 
“Annual Resource” shall mean a Generation Capacity Resource, an Annual Energy Efficiency 
Resource or an Annual Demand Resource.  
 
Annual Resource Price Adder:  
 
“Annual Resource Price Adder” shall mean, for Delivery Years starting June 1, 2014 and ending 
May 31, 2017,  an addition to the marginal value of Unforced Capacity and the Extended 
Summer Resource Price Adder as necessary to reflect the price of Annual Resources required to 
meet the applicable Minimum Annual Resource Requirement. 
 
Annual Revenue Rate: 
 
“Annual Revenue Rate” shall mean the rate employed to assess a compliance penalty charge on a 
Curtailment Service Provider under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 11. 
 
Annual Transmission Costs: 
 
“Annual Transmission Costs” shall mean the total annual cost of the Transmission System for 
purposes of Network Integration Transmission Service shall be the amount specified in 
Attachment H for each Zone until amended by the applicable Transmission Owner or modified 
by the Commission. 
 
Applicable Laws and Regulations: 
 
“Applicable Laws and Regulations” shall mean all duly promulgated applicable federal, State 
and local laws, regulations, rules, ordinances, codes, decrees, judgments, directives, or judicial or 
administrative orders, permits and other duly authorized actions of any Governmental Authority 
having jurisdiction over the relevant parties, their respective facilities, and/or the respective 
services they provide. 
 
Applicable Regional Entity: 
 
“Applicable Regional Entity” shall mean the Regional Entity for the region in which a Network 
Customer, Transmission Customer, New Service Customer, or Transmission Owner operates. 
 
Applicable Standards: 
 
“Applicable Standards” shall mean the requirements and guidelines of NERC, the Applicable 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 4 
Regional Entity, and the Control Area in which the Customer Facility is electrically located; the 
PJM Manuals; and Applicable Technical Requirements and Standards. 
 
Applicable Technical Requirements and Standards: 
 
“Applicable Technical Requirements and Standards” shall mean those certain technical 
requirements and standards applicable to interconnections of generation and/or transmission 
facilities with the facilities of an Interconnected Transmission Owner or, as the case may be and 
to the extent applicable, of an Electric Distributor, as published by Transmission Provider in a 
PJM Manual provided, however, that, with respect to any generation facilities with maximum 
generating capacity of 2 MW or less (synchronous) or 5 MW or less (inverter-based) for which 
the Interconnection Customer executes a Construction Service Agreement or Interconnection 
Service Agreement on or after March 19, 2005, “Applicable Technical Requirements and 
Standards” shall refer to the “PJM Small Generator Interconnection Applicable Technical 
Requirements and Standards.”  All Applicable Technical Requirements and Standards shall be 
publicly available through postings on Transmission Provider’s internet website. 
 
Applicant: 
 
“Applicant” shall mean an entity desiring to become a PJM Member, become a Market 
Participant, engage in market activities, or to take Transmission Service that has submitted the 
PJMSettlement credit application, PJMSettlement credit agreement and other required submittals 
as set forth in Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Application: 
 
“Application” shall mean a request by an Eligible Customer for transmission service pursuant to 
the provisions of the Tariff. 
 
Attachment Facilities: 
 
“Attachment Facilities” shall mean the facilities necessary to physically connect a Customer 
Facility to the Transmission System or interconnected distribution facilities. 
 
Attachment H: 
 
“Attachment H” shall refer collectively to the Attachments to the PJM Tariff with the prefix  
“H” that set forth, among other things, the Annual Transmission Rates for Network Integration 
Transmission Service in the PJM Zones. 
 
Auction Revenue Rights: 
 
“Auction Revenue Rights” or “ARRs” shall mean the right to receive the revenue from the 
Financial Transmission Right auction, as further described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 7.4, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - A - B 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 5 
Auction Revenue Rights Credits: 
 
“Auction Revenue Rights Credits” shall mean the allocated share of total FTR auction revenues 
or costs credited to each holder of Auction Revenue Rights, calculated and allocated as specified 
in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.3, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
