SCHEDULE 4 
Energy Imbalance Service 
 
Energy Imbalance Service is provided when a difference occurs between the scheduled and the 
actual delivery of energy to a load located within a Control Area over a single hour.  The 
Transmission Provider must offer this service when the transmission service is used to serve load 
within its Control Area.  Each Transmission Owner, Transmission Customer, and Network 
Customer must purchase Energy Imbalance Service through the Transmission Provider, with 
PJMSettlement acting as the Counterparty, or make alternative comparable arrangements, which 
may include use of non-generation resources capable of providing this service.  For purposes of 
Energy Imbalance Services, if a Point of Delivery serves more than one Transmission Owner or 
Network Customer, the Energy Imbalance Service and any associated charges will be computed 
by the Transmission Provider for the Point of Delivery and the allocation of the service and 
associated charges shall be the responsibility of the meter operator of the Point of Delivery. 
 
For each Transmission Owner, Transmission Customer receiving service under Tariff, Part II, 
and Network Customer, Energy Imbalance Service is considered to be PJM interchange and will 
be charged at the Locational Marginal Price determined pursuant to Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 2.  The Transmission Provider shall administer the purchases by customers of 
Energy Imbalance Service.  PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the purchases by 
customers of Energy Imbalance Service.   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 5 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 5 
Operating Reserve - Synchronized Reserve Service 
 
Synchronized Reserve Service is needed to serve load immediately in the event of a system 
contingency.  Synchronized Reserve Service may be provided by generating units that are on-
line and loaded at less than maximum output and by non-generation resources capable of 
providing this service or eligible Demand Resources as specified in Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 1.7.19A.  The Transmission Provider must offer this service when the 
transmission service is used to serve load within its Control Area.  Each Transmission Owner 
and Network Customer must purchase this service from the Transmission Provider.  The amount 
of and charges for Synchronized Reserve Service, as defined in accordance with NERC 
operating policies, will be accounted and paid for as set forth in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 3.2.3A.  The Transmission Provider shall administer the purchases by customers of 
Synchronized Reserve Service.  PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the purchases by 
customers of Synchronized Reserve Service in the PJM Interchange Energy Market; provided 
however, that PJMSettlement shall not be the contracting party to bilateral transactions between 
market participants or with respect to a self-schedule or self-supply of generation resources by a 
customer to satisfy its Synchronized Reserve obligation.   
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 6 
Effective Date: 9/1/2018 - Docket #: ER18-1905-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 6 
Operating Reserve - Supplemental Reserve Service 
 
Supplemental Reserve Service is needed to serve load in the event of a system contingency; 
however, it is not available immediately to serve load but rather within a short period of time.  
Supplemental Reserve Service may be provided by generating units that are on-line but 
unloaded, by quick-start generation or by interruptible load or other non-generation resources 
capable of providing this service.  The Transmission Provider must offer this service when the 
transmission service is used to serve load within its Control Area.  Each Transmission Owner 
and Network Customer must purchase this service from the Transmission Provider.  The amount 
of and charges for Supplemental Reserve Service will be accounted and paid for as part of the 
Operating Reserves in accordance with Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2.3 and Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 3.2.3A.01.  The Transmission Provider shall administer the 
purchases by customers of Supplemental Reserve Service in the PJM Interchange Energy 
Market.  PJMSettlement shall be the Counterparty to the purchases by customers of 
Supplemental Reserve Service in the PJM Interchange Energy Market; provided however, that 
PJMSettlement shall not be the contracting party to bilateral transactions between market 
participants or with respect to a self-schedule or self-supply relating to Supplemental Reserve.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 6A 
Effective Date: 9/1/2025 - Docket #: ER25-2123-001 - Page 1 
