[SCHEDULE 7 - Part 2 of 3]

Requirement shall not include months for which the invoicing has already been completed, 
provided that PJMSettlement shall have up to two Business Days following the date of the 
invoice completion to make such adjustments in its credit systems.  FTR Credit Requirements 
are calculated and applied separately for each separate customer account. 
 
FTR Flow Undiversified: 
 
“FTR Flow Undiversified” shall have the meaning established in Tariff, Attachment Q, section 
VI.C.6. 
 
FTR Historical Value: 
  
For each FTR for each month, “FTR Historical Value” shall mean the weighted average of  
historical values over three years for the FTR path using the following weightings:  50% - most 
recent year; 30% - second year; 20% - third year.   
 
FTR Holder: 
 
“FTR Holder” shall mean the PJM Member that has acquired and possesses an FTR. 
 
FTR Monthly Credit Requirement Contribution: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - E - F 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 12 
For each FTR, for each month, ”FTR Monthly Credit Requirement Contribution” shall mean the 
total FTR cost for the month, prorated on a daily basis, less the FTR Historical Value for the 
month.  For cleared FTRs, this contribution may be negative; prior to clearing, FTRs with 
negative contribution shall be deemed to have zero contribution. 
 
FTR Net Activity: 
  
“FTR Net Activity” shall mean the aggregate net value of the billing line items for auction 
revenue rights credits, FTR auction charges, FTR auction credits, and FTR congestion credits, 
and shall also include day-ahead and balancing/real-time congestion charges up to a maximum 
net value of the sum of the foregoing auction revenue rights credits, FTR auction charges, FTR 
auction credits and FTR congestion credits. 
 
FTR Participant: 
 
“FTR Participant” shall mean any Market Participant that provides or is required to provide 
Collateral in order to participate in PJM’s FTR market. 
 
FTR Portfolio Auction Value: 
 
“FTR Portfolio Auction Value” shall mean for each customer account of a Market Participant, 
the sum, calculated on a monthly basis, across all FTRs, of the FTR price times the FTR volume 
in MW.  
 
Fuel Cost Policy: 
 
“Fuel Cost Policy” shall mean the document provided by a Market Seller to PJM and the Market 
Monitoring Unit in accordance with PJM Manual 15 and Operating Agreement, Schedule 2, 
which documents the Market Seller’s method used to price fuel for calculation of the Market 
Seller’s cost-based offers for a generation resource.  
 
Full Notice to Proceed: 
 
“Full Notice to Proceed” shall mean that all material third party contractors have been given the 
notice to proceed with construction by the Capacity Market Seller or its agent, with a guaranteed 
completion date backed by liquidated damages. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - G - H 
Effective Date: 12/1/2024 - Docket #: ER23-2484-000 - Page 1 
Definitions – G - H 
 
Generating Market Buyer: 
 
“Generating Market Buyer” shall mean an Internal Market Buyer that is a Load Serving Entity 
that owns or has contractual rights to the output of generation resources capable of serving the 
Market Buyer’s load in the PJM Region, or of selling energy or related services in the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market or elsewhere. 
 
Generation Capacity Resource: 
 
“Generation Capacity Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Generation Interconnection Customer: 
 
“Generation Interconnection Customer” shall mean an entity that submits an Interconnection 
Request to interconnect a new generation facility or to increase the capacity of an existing 
generation facility interconnected with the Transmission System in the PJM Region. 
 
Generation Interconnection Facilities Study: 
 
“Generation Interconnection Facilities Study” shall mean a Facilities Study related to a 
Generation Interconnection Request. 
 
Generation Interconnection Feasibility Study: 
 
“Generation Interconnection Feasibility Study” shall mean a study conducted by the 
Transmission Provider (in coordination with the affected Transmission Owner(s)) in accordance 
with Tariff, Part IV, section 36.2. 
 
Generation Interconnection Request: 
 
“Generation Interconnection Request” shall mean a request by a Generation Interconnection 
Customer pursuant to Tariff, Part IV, subpart A, to interconnect a generating unit with the 
Transmission System or to increase the capacity of a generating unit interconnected with the 
Transmission System in the PJM Region. 
 
Generation Owner: 
 
“Generation Owner” shall mean a Member that owns, leases with rights equivalent to ownership, 
or otherwise controls and operates one or more operating generation resources located in the 
PJM Region.  The foregoing notwithstanding, for a planned generation resource to qualify a 
Member as a Generation Owner, such resource shall have cleared an RPM auction, and for 
Energy Resources, the resource shall have a FERC-jurisdictional interconnection agreement or 
wholesale market participation agreement within PJM.  Purchasing all or a portion of the output 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - G - H 
Effective Date: 12/1/2024 - Docket #: ER23-2484-000 - Page 2 
of a generation resource shall not be sufficient to qualify a Member as a Generation Owner. For 
purposes of Members Committee sector classification, a Member that is primarily a retail end-
user of electricity that owns generation may qualify as a Generation Owner if: (1) the generation 
resource is the subject of a FERC-jurisdictional interconnection agreement or wholesale market 
participation agreement within PJM; (2) the average physical unforced capacity owned by the 
Member and its affiliates over the five Planning Periods immediately preceding the relevant 
Planning Period exceeds the average PJM capacity obligation of the Member and its affiliates 
over the same time period; and (3) the average energy produced by the Member and its affiliates 
within PJM over the five Planning Periods immediately preceding the relevant Planning Period 
exceeds the average energy consumed by the Member and its affiliates within PJM over the same 
time period. 
 
Generation Resource Maximum Output:   
 
“Generation Resource Maximum Output” shall mean, for Customer Facilities identified in an 
Interconnection Service Agreement or Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, the 
Generation Resource Maximum Output for a generating unit shall equal the unit’s pro rata share 
of the Maximum Facility Output, determined by the Economic Maximum values for the 
available units at the Customer Facility.  For generating units not identified in an Interconnection 
Service Agreement or Wholesale Market Participation Agreement, the Generation Resource 
Maximum Output shall equal the generating unit’s Economic Maximum. 
 
Generator Forced Outage: 
 
“Generator Forced Outage” shall mean an immediate reduction in output or capacity or removal 
from service, in whole or in part, of a generating unit by reason of an Emergency or threatened 
Emergency, unanticipated failure, or other cause beyond the control of the owner or operator of 
the facility, as specified in the relevant portions of the PJM Manuals.  A reduction in output or 
removal from service of a generating unit in response to changes in market conditions shall not 
constitute a Generator Forced Outage. 
 
Generator Maintenance Outage: 
 
“Generator Maintenance Outage” shall mean the scheduled removal from service, in whole or in 
part, of a generating unit in order to perform necessary repairs on specific components of the 
facility, if removal of the facility meets the guidelines specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Generator Planned Outage: 
 
“Generator Planned Outage” shall mean the scheduled removal from service, in whole or in part, 
of a generating unit for inspection, maintenance or repair with the approval of the Office of the 
Interconnection in accordance with the PJM Manuals. 
 
Good Utility Practice: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - G - H 
Effective Date: 12/1/2024 - Docket #: ER23-2484-000 - Page 3 
“Good Utility Practice” shall mean any of the practices, methods and acts engaged in or 
approved by a significant portion of the electric utility industry during the relevant time period, 
or any of the practices, methods and acts which, in the exercise of reasonable judgment in light 
of the facts known at the time the decision was made, could have been expected to accomplish 
the desired result at a reasonable cost consistent with good business practices, reliability, safety 
and expedition.  Good Utility Practice is not intended to be limited to the optimum practice, 
method, or act to the exclusion of all others, but rather is intended to include acceptable 
practices, methods, or acts generally accepted in the region; including those practices required by 
Federal Power Act, section 215(a)(4). 
 
Governmental Authority: 
 
“Governmental Authority” shall mean any federal, state, local or other governmental, regulatory 
or administrative agency, court, commission, department, board, or other governmental 
subdivision, legislature, rulemaking board, tribunal, arbitrating body, or other governmental 
authority having jurisdiction over any Interconnection Party or Construction Party or regarding 
any matter relating to an Interconnection Service Agreement or Construction Service Agreement, 
as applicable. 
 
Guarantor:  
 
“Guarantor” shall mean a credit support provider for a Participant that provides a Corporate 
Guaranty accepted by PJM and/or PJMSettlement, and for which PJM has made a determination 
that the Guarantor meets applicable creditworthiness requirements under Tariff, Attachment Q. 
 
Hazardous Substances: 
 
“Hazardous Substance” shall mean any chemicals, materials or substances defined as or included 
in the definition of “hazardous substances,” “hazardous wastes,” “hazardous materials,” 
“hazardous constituents,” “restricted hazardous materials,” “extremely hazardous substances,” 
“toxic substances,” “radioactive substances,” “contaminants,” “pollutants,” “toxic pollutants” or 
words of similar meaning and regulatory effect under any applicable Environmental Law, or any 
other chemical, material or substance, exposure to which is prohibited, limited or regulated by 
any applicable Environmental Law.  
 
Hot Weather Alert: 
 
“Hot Weather Alert” shall mean the notice provided by PJM to PJM Members, Transmission 
Owners, resource owners and operators, customers, and regulators to prepare personnel and 
facilities for extreme hot and/or humid weather conditions which may cause capacity 
requirements and/or unit unavailability to be substantially higher than forecast are expected to 
persist for an extended period.  
 
Hybrid Resource: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - G - H 
Effective Date: 12/1/2024 - Docket #: ER23-2484-000 - Page 4 
“Hybrid Resource” shall mean an Energy Resource or a Generation Capacity Resource 
composed of more than one component behind the same Point of Interconnection operating in 
the capacity, energy, and/or ancillary services market(s) as a single integrated resource, whereby 
each component is a separate generation and/or storage technology type. A Hybrid Resource 
forms all or part of a Mixed Technology Facility. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - I - J - K 
Effective Date: 10/18/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2649-000 - Page 1 
Definitions – I – J - K 
 
IDR Transfer Agreement: 
 
“IDR Transfer Agreement” shall mean an agreement to transfer, subject to the terms of Tariff, 
Part VI, section 237, Incremental Deliverability Rights to a party for the purpose of eliminating 
or reducing the need for Local or Network Upgrades that would otherwise have been the 
responsibility of the party receiving such rights. 
 
Immediate-need Reliability Project: 
 
“Immediate-need Reliability Project” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating 
Agreement. 
 
Inadvertent Interchange: 
 
“Inadvertent Interchange” shall mean the difference between net actual energy flow and net 
scheduled energy flow into or out of the individual Control Areas operated by PJM. 
 
Incidental Expenses: 
 
“Incidental Expenses” shall mean those expenses incidental to the performance of construction 
pursuant to an Interconnection Construction Service Agreement, including, but not limited to, the 
expense of temporary construction power, telecommunications charges, Interconnected 
Transmission Owner expenses associated with, but not limited to, document preparation, design 
review, installation, monitoring, and construction-related operations and maintenance for the 
Customer Facility and for the Interconnection Facilities. 
 
Incremental Auction: 
 
“Incremental Auction” shall mean any of several auctions conducted for a Delivery Year after 
the Base Residual Auction for such Delivery Year and before the first day of such Delivery Year, 
including the First Incremental Auction, Second Incremental Auction, Third Incremental Auction 
or Conditional Incremental Auction.  Incremental Auctions (other than the Conditional 
Incremental Auction shall be held for the purposes of: 
 
 (i) allowing Market Sellers that committed Capacity Resources in the Base Residual 
Auction for a Delivery Year, which subsequently are determined to be unavailable to deliver the 
committed Unforced Capacity in such Delivery Year (due to resource retirement, resource 
cancellation or construction delay, resource derating, EFORd increase, a decrease in the 
Nominated Demand Resource Value of a Planned Demand Resource, delay or cancellation of a 
Qualifying Transmission Upgrade, or similar occurrences) to submit Buy Bids for replacement 
Capacity Resources; and  
 
(ii) allowing the Office of the Interconnection to reduce or increase the amount of 
committed capacity secured in prior auctions for such Delivery Year if, as a result of changed 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - I - J - K 
Effective Date: 10/18/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2649-000 - Page 2 
circumstances or expectations since the prior auction(s), there is, respectively, a significant 
excess or significant deficit of committed capacity for such Delivery Year, for the PJM Region 
or for an LDA. 
 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights: 
 
“Incremental Auction Revenue Rights” shall mean the additional Auction Revenue Rights, not 
previously feasible, created by the addition of Incremental Rights-Eligible Required 
Transmission Enhancements, Merchant Transmission Facilities, or of one or more Customer-
Funded Upgrades.  
 
Incremental Available Transfer Capability Revenue Rights: 
 
“Incremental Available Transfer Capability Revenue Rights” shall mean the rights to revenues 
that are derived from incremental Available Transfer Capability created by the addition of 
Merchant Transmission Facilities or of one of more Customer-Funded Upgrades. 
 
Incremental Capacity Transfer Right: 
 
“Incremental Capacity Transfer Right” shall mean a Capacity Transfer Right allocated to a 
Generation Interconnection Customer or Transmission Interconnection Customer obligated to 
fund a transmission facility or upgrade, to the extent such upgrade or facility increases the 
transmission import capability into a Locational Deliverability Area, or a Capacity Transfer 
Right allocated to a Responsible Customer in accordance with Tariff, Schedule 12A.  
 
Incremental Deliverability Rights (IDRs): 
 
“Incremental Deliverability Rights” or “IDRs” shall mean the rights to the incremental ability, 
resulting from the addition of Merchant Transmission Facilities, to inject energy and capacity at 
a point on the Transmission System, such that the injection satisfies the deliverability 
requirements of a Capacity Resource. Incremental Deliverability Rights may be obtained by a 
generator or a Generation Interconnection Customer, pursuant to an IDR Transfer Agreement, to 
satisfy, in part, the deliverability requirements necessary to obtain Capacity Interconnection 
Rights. 
 
Incremental Energy Offer: 
 
“Incremental Energy Offer” shall mean the cost in dollars per MWh of providing an additional 
MWh from a synchronized unit. It consists primarily of the cost of fuel, as determined by the 
unit’s incremental heat rate (adjusted by the performance factor) times the fuel cost. It also 
includes operating costs, Maintenance Adders, emissions allowances, tax credits, and energy 
market opportunity costs. 
 
Incremental Multi-Driver Project: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - I - J - K 
Effective Date: 10/18/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2649-000 - Page 3 
“Incremental Multi-Driver Project” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating 
Agreement. 
 
Incremental Rights-Eligible Required Transmission Enhancements: 
 
“Incremental Rights-Eligible Required Transmission Enhancements” shall mean Regional 
Facilities and Necessary Lower Voltage Facilities or Lower Voltage Facilities (as defined in 
Tariff, Schedule 12) and meet one of the following criteria: (1) cost responsibility is assigned to 
non-contiguous Zones that are not directly electrically connected; or (2) cost responsibility is 
assigned to Merchant Transmission Providers that are Responsible Customers. 
 
Increment Offer: 
 
“Increment Offer” shall mean a type of Virtual Transaction that is an offer to sell energy at a 
specified location in the Day-ahead Energy Market.  A cleared Increment Offer results in 
scheduled generation at the specified location in the Day-ahead Energy Market. 
 
Independent Auditor: 
 
“Independent Auditor” shall mean an external accountant or external accounting firm who is not 
an employee of, not otherwise related to, not obligated to, has no interest in, and is independent 
in the performance of professional services for, the entity he/she/it is auditing, its management 
and/or its owners. 
 
Initial Operation: 
 
“Initial Operation” shall mean the commencement of operation of the Customer Facility and 
Customer Interconnection Facilities after satisfaction of the conditions of Tariff, Attachment O- 
Appendix 2, section 1.4 (an Interconnection Service Agreement). 
 
Integer Relaxation: 
 
“Integer Relaxation” shall mean the process by which the commitment status variable for an 
Eligible Fast-Start Resource is allowed to vary between zero and one, inclusive of zero and one, 
as further described in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2.2. 
 
Interconnected Entity: 
 
“Interconnected Entity” shall mean either the Interconnection Customer or the Interconnected 
Transmission Owner; Interconnected Entities shall mean both of them. 
 
Interconnected Transmission Owner: 
 
“Interconnected Transmission Owner” shall mean the Transmission Owner to whose 
transmission facilities or distribution facilities Customer Interconnection Facilities are, or as the 
case may be, a Customer Facility is, being directly connected.  When used in an Interconnection 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - I - J - K 
Effective Date: 10/18/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2649-000 - Page 4 
Construction Service Agreement, the term may refer to a Transmission Owner whose facilities 
must be upgraded pursuant to the Facilities Study, but whose facilities are not directly 
interconnected with those of the Interconnection Customer. 
 
Interconnection Construction Service Agreement: 
 
“Interconnection Construction Service Agreement” shall mean the agreement entered into by an 
Interconnection Customer, Interconnected Transmission Owner and the Transmission Provider 
pursuant to Tariff, Part VI, Subpart B and in the form set forth in Tariff, Attachment P, relating 
to construction of Attachment Facilities, Network Upgrades, and/or Local Upgrades and 
coordination of the construction and interconnection of an associated Customer Facility.  A 
separate Interconnection Construction Service Agreement will be executed with each 
Transmission Owner that is responsible for construction of any Attachment Facilities, Network 
Upgrades, or Local Upgrades associated with interconnection of a Customer Facility. 
 
Interconnection Customer: 
 
“Interconnection Customer” shall mean a Generation Interconnection Customer and/or a 
Transmission Interconnection Customer. 
 
Interconnection Facilities: 
 
“Interconnection Facilities” shall mean the Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities and 
the Customer Interconnection Facilities. 
 
Interconnection Feasibility Study: 
 
“Interconnection Feasibility Study” shall mean either a Generation Interconnection Feasibility 
Study or Transmission Interconnection Feasibility Study. 
 
Interconnection Party: 
 
“Interconnection Party” shall mean a Transmission Provider, Interconnection Customer, or the 
Interconnected Transmission Owner. Interconnection Parties shall mean all of them. 
 
Interconnection Request: 
 
“Interconnection Request” shall mean a Generation Interconnection Request, a Transmission 
Interconnection Request and/or an IDR Transfer Agreement. 
 
Interconnection Service: 
 
“Interconnection Service” shall mean the physical and electrical interconnection of the Customer 
Facility with the Transmission System pursuant to the terms of Tariff, Part IV and Tariff, Part VI 
and the Interconnection Service Agreement entered into pursuant thereto by Interconnection 
Customer, the Interconnected Transmission Owner and Transmission Provider. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - I - J - K 
Effective Date: 10/18/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2649-000 - Page 5 
 
Interconnection Service Agreement: 
 
“Interconnection Service Agreement” shall mean an agreement among the Transmission 
Provider, an Interconnection Customer and an Interconnected Transmission Owner regarding 
interconnection under Tariff, Part IV and Tariff, Part VI. 
 
Interconnection Studies: 
 
“Interconnection Studies” shall mean the Interconnection Feasibility Study, the System Impact 
Study, and the Facilities Study described in Tariff, Part IV and Tariff, Part VI. 
 
Interface Pricing Point: 
 
“Interface Pricing Point” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 2.6A, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2.6A. 
 
Intermittent Resource: 
 
“Intermittent Resource” shall mean a Generation Capacity Resource with output that can vary as 
a function of its energy source, such as wind, solar, run of river hydroelectric power and other 
renewable resources.  
 
Internal Credit Score: 
 
“Internal Credit Score” shall mean a composite numerical score determined by PJMSettlement 
using quantitative and qualitative metrics to estimate various predictors of a credit event 
happening to a Market Participant that may trigger a credit event. 
 
Internal Market Buyer: 
 
“Internal Market Buyer” shall mean a Market Buyer making purchases of energy from the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market for ultimate consumption by end-users inside the PJM Region that 
are served by Network Transmission Service. 
 
Interregional Transmission Project: 
 
“Interregional Transmission Project” shall mean transmission facilities that would be located 
within two or more neighboring transmission planning regions and are determined by each of 
those regions to be a more efficient or cost effective solution to regional transmission needs. 
 
Interruption: 
 
“Interruption” shall mean a reduction in non-firm transmission service due to economic reasons 
pursuant to Tariff, Part II, section 14.7. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - I - J - K 
Effective Date: 10/18/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2649-000 - Page 6 
IROL Critical Resource: 
 
“IROL Critical Resource” shall mean a generation resource that the Office of the Interconnection 
designates, pursuant to NERC Reliability Standards, as having an interconnection reliability 
operating limit that, if violated, could lead to instability, uncontrolled separation, or cascading 
outages that adversely impact the reliability of the bulk electric system.   
 
Jointly Owned Cross-Subsidized Capacity Resource: 
 
“Jointly Owned Cross-Subsidized Capacity Resource” shall mean a Capacity Resource that is 
supported by a facility that is jointly owned, where at least one owner is entitled to or receives a 
State Subsidy associated with such Capacity Resource, and therefore shall be considered a 
Capacity Resource with State Subsidy; provided however, in the event that the material rights 
and obligations of such generating facility are in pari passu, meaning that such rights and 
obligations are allocated among the owners pro rata based on ownership share, only Capacity 
Resources of those owners entitled to receive or receiving a State Subsidy shall have their share 
of such resource considered a Capacity Resource with a State Subsidy and Capacity Resources of 
owners not entitled to a State Subsidy shall not be considered a Capacity Resource with a State 
Subsidy.  Each of these designations may be overcome by either Capacity Market Seller 
demonstrating to the Office of Interconnection, with advice and input from the Market 
Monitoring Unit, that there is no cross-subsidization or the Office of the Interconnection, with 
review and input from the Market Monitor, finds based on sufficient evidence, that there is cross-
subsidization. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 1 
Definitions – L – M – N 
 
Legacy Policy: 
 
“Legacy Policy” shall mean any legislative, executive, or regulatory action that specifically 
directs a payment outside of PJM Markets to a designated or prospective Generation Capacity 
Resource and the enactment of such action predates October 1, 2021, regardless of when any 
implementing governmental action to effectuate the action to direct payment outside of PJM 
Markets occurs. 
 
Limited Demand Resource:  
 
“Limited Demand Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Limited Demand Resource Reliability Target:  
 
“Limited Demand Resource Reliability Target” for the PJM Region or an LDA, shall mean the 
maximum amount of Limited Demand Resources determined by PJM to be consistent with the 
maintenance of reliability, stated in Unforced Capacity that shall be used to calculate the 
Minimum Extended Summer Demand Resource Requirement for Delivery Years through May 
31, 2017 and the Limited Resource Constraint for the 2017/2018 and 2018/2019 Delivery Years 
for the PJM Region or such LDA.  As more fully set forth in the PJM Manuals, PJM calculates 
the Limited Demand Resource Reliability Target by first:  i) testing the effects of the ten-
interruption requirement by comparing possible loads on peak days under a range of weather 
conditions (from the daily load forecast distributions for the Delivery Year in question) against 
possible generation capacity on such days under a range of conditions (using the cumulative 
capacity distributions employed in the Installed Reserve Margin study for the PJM Region and in 
the Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective study for the relevant LDAs for such Delivery Year) 
and, by varying the assumed amounts of DR that is committed and displaces committed 
generation, determines the DR penetration level at which there is a ninety percent probability 
that DR will not be called (based on the applicable operating reserve margin for the PJM Region 
and for the relevant LDAs) more than ten times over those peak days;  ii) testing the six-hour 
duration requirement by calculating the MW difference between the highest hourly unrestricted 
peak load and seventh highest hourly unrestricted peak load on certain high peak load days (e.g., 
the annual peak, loads above the weather normalized peak, or days where load management was 
called) in recent years, then dividing those loads by the forecast peak for those years and 
averaging the result; and (iii) (for the 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 Delivery Years) testing the 
effects of the six-hour duration requirement by comparing possible hourly loads on peak days 
under a range of weather conditions (from the daily load forecast distributions for the Delivery 
Year in question) against possible generation capacity on such days under a range of conditions 
(using a Monte Carlo model of hourly capacity levels that is consistent with the capacity model 
employed in the Installed Reserve Margin study for the PJM Region and in the Capacity 
Emergency Transfer Objective study for the relevant LDAs for such Delivery Year) and, by 
varying the assumed amounts of DR that is committed and displaces committed generation, 
determines the DR penetration level at which there is a ninety percent probability that DR will 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 2 
not be called (based on the applicable operating reserve margin for the PJM Region and for the 
relevant LDAs) for more than six hours over any one or more of the tested peak days.  Second, 
PJM adopts the lowest result from these three tests as the Limited Demand Resource Reliability 
Target.  The Limited Demand Resource Reliability Target shall be expressed as a percentage of 
the forecasted peak load of the PJM Region or such LDA and is converted to Unforced Capacity 
by multiplying [the reliability target percentage] times [the Forecast Pool Requirement] times 
[the DR Factor] times [the forecasted peak load of the PJM Region or such LDA, reduced by the 
amount of load served under the FRR Alternative]. 
 
Limited Resource Constraint: 
 
“Limited Resource Constraint” shall mean, for the 2017/2018 Delivery Year and for FRR 
Capacity Plans the 2017/2018 and Delivery Years, for the PJM Region or each LDA for which 
the Office of the Interconnection is required under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.10(a) to 
establish a separate VRR Curve for a Delivery Year, a limit on the total amount of Unforced 
Capacity that can be committed as Limited Demand Resources for the 2017/2018 Delivery Year 
in the PJM Region or in such LDA, calculated as the Limited Demand Resource Reliability 
Target for the PJM Region or such LDA, respectively, minus the Short Term Resource 
Procurement Target for the PJM Region or such LDA, respectively. 
 
Limited Resource Price Decrement: 
“Limited Resource Price Decrement” shall mean, for the 2017/2018 Delivery Year, a difference 
between the clearing price for Limited Demand Resources and the clearing price for Extended 
Summer Demand Resources and Annual Resources, representing the cost to procure additional 
Extended Summer Demand Resources or Annual Resources out of merit order when the Limited 
Resource Constraint is binding. 
 
List of Approved Contractors: 
 
“List of Approved Contractors” shall mean a list developed by each Transmission Owner and 
published in a PJM Manual of (a) contractors that the Transmission Owner considers to be 
qualified to install or construct new facilities and/or upgrades or modifications to existing 
facilities on the Transmission Owner’s system, provided that such contractors may include, but 
need not be limited to, contractors that, in addition to providing construction services, also 
provide design and/or other construction-related services, and (b) manufacturers or vendors of 
major transmission-related equipment (e.g., high-voltage transformers, transmission line, circuit 
breakers) whose products the Transmission Owner considers acceptable for installation and use 
on its system. 
 
Load Interest: 
 
“Load Interest” shall mean, for the purposes of the minimum offer price rule, responsibility for 
serving load within the PJM Region, whether by the Capacity Market Seller, an affiliate of the 
Capacity Market Seller, or by an entity with which the Capacity Market Seller is in contractual 
privity with respect to the subject Generation Capacity Resource. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 3 
Load Management: 
 
“Load Management” shall mean a Demand Resource (“DR”) as defined in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Load Management Event: 
 
“Load Management Event” shall mean a) a single temporally contiguous dispatch of Demand 
Resources in a Compliance Aggregation Area during an Operating Day, or b) multiple dispatches 
of Demand Resources in a Compliance Aggregation Area during an Operating Day that are 
temporally contiguous.  
 
Load Ratio Share: 
 
“Load Ratio Share” shall mean the ratio of a Transmission Customer’s Network Load to the 
Transmission Provider’s total load. 
 
Load Reduction Event: 
 
“Load Reduction Event” shall mean a reduction in demand by a Member or Special Member for 
the purpose of participating in the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
Load Serving Charging Energy:  
 
“Load Serving Charging Energy” shall mean energy that is purchased from the PJM Interchange 
Energy Market and stored in an Energy Storage Resource or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource for 
later resale to end-use load. 
 
Load Serving Entity (LSE): 
 
“Load Serving Entity” or “LSE” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Load Shedding: 
 
“Load Shedding” shall mean the systematic reduction of system demand by temporarily 
decreasing load in response to transmission system or area capacity shortages, system instability, 
or voltage control considerations under Tariff, Part II or Part III. 
 
Local Upgrades: 
 
“Local Upgrades” shall mean modifications or additions of facilities to abate any local thermal 
loading, voltage, short circuit, stability or similar engineering problem caused by the 
interconnection and delivery of generation to the Transmission System.  Local Upgrades shall 
include: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 4 
 (i) Direct Connection Local Upgrades which are Local Upgrades that only serve the 
Customer Interconnection Facility and have no impact or potential impact on the Transmission 
System until the final tie-in is complete; and  
 
 (ii) Non-Direct Connection Local Upgrades which are parallel flow Local Upgrades that 
are not Direct Connection Local Upgrades. 
 
Location: 
 
“Location” as used in the Economic Load Response rules shall mean an end-use customer site as 
defined by the relevant electric distribution company account number. 
 
LOC Deviation:   
 
“LOC Deviation,” shall mean, for units other than wind units, the LOC Deviation shall equal the 
desired megawatt amount for the resource determined according to the point on the Final Offer 
curve corresponding to the Real-time Settlement Interval real-time Locational Marginal Price at 
the resource’s bus and adjusted for any reduction in megawatts due to Regulation, Synchronized 
Reserve, or Secondary Reserve assignments and limited to the lesser of the unit’s Economic 
Maximum or the unit’s Generation Resource Maximum Output, minus the actual output of the 
unit.  For wind units, the LOC Deviation shall mean the deviation of the generating unit’s output 
equal to the lesser of the PJM forecasted output for the unit or the desired megawatt amount for 
the resource determined according to the point on the Final Offer curve corresponding to the 
Real-time Settlement Interval integrated real-time Locational Marginal Price at the resource’s 
bus, and shall be limited to the lesser of the unit’s Economic Maximum or the unit’s Generation 
Resource Maximum Output, minus the actual output of the unit. 
 
Locational Deliverability Area (LDA): 
 
“Locational Deliverability Area” or “LDA” shall mean a geographic area within the PJM Region 
that has limited transmission capability to import capacity to satisfy such area’s reliability 
requirement, as determined by the Office of the Interconnection in connection with preparation 
of the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, and as specified in Reliability Assurance 
Agreement, Schedule 10.1. 
 
Locational Deliverability Area Reliability Requirement: 
 
“Locational Deliverability Area Reliability Requirement” shall mean the projected internal 
capacity in the Locational Deliverability Area plus the Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective 
for the Delivery Year, as determined by the Office of the Interconnection in connection with 
preparation of the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, less the minimum internal resources 
required for all FRR Entities in such Locational Deliverability Area. 
 
Locational Price Adder: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 5 
“Locational Price Adder” shall mean an addition to the marginal value of Unforced Capacity 
within an LDA as necessary to reflect the price of Capacity Resources required to relieve 
applicable binding locational constraints.  
 
Locational Reliability Charge: 
 
“Locational Reliability Charge” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement.  
 
Locational UCAP: 
 
“Locational UCAP” shall mean unforced capacity that a Member with available uncommitted 
capacity sells in a bilateral transaction to a Member that previously committed capacity through 
an RPM Auction but now requires replacement capacity to fulfill its RPM Auction commitment.  
The Locational UCAP Seller retains responsibility for performance of the resource providing 
such replacement capacity.   
 
Locational UCAP Seller: 
 
“Locational UCAP Seller” shall mean a Member that sells Locational UCAP. 
 
Long-lead Project: 
 
“Long-lead Project” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service: 
 
“Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service” shall mean firm Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service under Tariff, Part II with a term of one year or more. 
 
Loss Price: 
 
“Loss Price” shall mean the loss component of the Locational Marginal Price, which is the effect 
on transmission loss costs (whether positive or negative) associated with increasing the output of 
a generation resource or decreasing the consumption by a Demand Resource based on the effect 
of increased generation from or consumption by the resource on transmission losses, calculated 
as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 2. 
 
M2M Flowgate: 
 
“M2M Flowgate” shall have the meaning provided in the Joint Operating Agreement between 
the Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. and PJM Interconnection, 
L.L.C. 
 
Maintenance Adder:   

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 6 
 
“Maintenance Adder” shall mean an adder that may be included to account for variable operation 
and maintenance expenses in a Market Seller’s Fuel Cost Policy.  The Maintenance Adder is 
calculated in accordance with the applicable provisions of PJM Manual 15, and may only include 
expenses incurred as a result of electric production. 
 
Manual Load Dump Action: 
 
“Manual Load Dump Action” shall mean an Operating Instruction, as defined by NERC, from 
PJM to shed firm load when the PJM Region cannot provide adequate capacity to meet the PJM 
Region’s load and tie schedules, or to alleviate critically overloaded transmission lines or other 
equipment. 
 
Manual Load Dump Warning: 
 
“Manual Load Dump Warning” shall mean a notification from PJM to warn Members of an 
increasingly critical condition of present operations that may require manually shedding load. 
 
Marginal Value:  
 
“Marginal Value” shall mean the incremental change in system dispatch costs, measured as a 
$/MW value incurred by providing one additional MW of relief to the transmission constraint. 
 
Market Monitor: 
 
“Market Monitor” means the head of the Market Monitoring Unit. 
 
Market Monitoring Unit or MMU: 
 
“Market Monitoring Unit” or “MMU” means the independent Market Monitoring Unit defined in 
18 CFR § 35.28(a)(7) and established under the PJM Market Monitoring Plan (Attachment M) to 
the PJM Tariff that is responsible for implementing the Market Monitoring Plan, including the 
Market Monitor.  The Market Monitoring Unit may also be referred to as the IMM or 
Independent Market Monitor for PJM 
 
Market Monitoring Unit Advisory Committee or MMU Advisory Committee: 
 
“Market Monitoring Unit Advisory Committee” or “MMU Advisory Committee” shall mean the 
committee established under Tariff, Attachment M, section III.H. 
 
Market Operations Center: 
 
“Market Operations Center” shall mean the equipment, facilities and personnel used by or on 
behalf of a Market Participant to communicate and coordinate with the Office of the 
Interconnection in connection with transactions in the PJM Interchange Energy Market or the 
operation of the PJM Region. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 7 
 
Market Participant: 
 
“Market Participant” shall mean a Market Buyer, a Market Seller, an Economic Load Response 
Participant, or all three, except when such term is used in Tariff, Attachment M, in which case 
Market Participant shall mean an entity that generates, transmits, distributes, purchases, or sells 
electricity, ancillary services, or any other product or service provided under the PJM Tariff or 
Operating Agreement within, into, out of, or through the PJM Region, but it shall not include an 
Authorized Government Agency that consumes energy for its own use but does not purchase or 
sell energy at wholesale. 
 
Market Participant Energy Injection: 
 
“Market Participant Energy Injection” shall mean transactions in the Day-ahead Energy Market 
and Real-time Energy Market, including but not limited to Day-ahead generation schedules, real-
time generation output, Increment Offers, internal bilateral transactions and import transactions, 
as further described in the PJM Manuals.  
 
Market Participant Energy Withdrawal: 
 
“Market Participant Energy Withdrawal” shall mean transactions in the Day-ahead Energy 
Market and Real-time Energy Market, including but not limited to Demand Bids, Decrement 
Bids, real-time load (net of Behind The Meter Generation expected to be operating, but not to be 
less than zero), internal bilateral transactions and Export Transactions, as further described in the 
PJM Manuals.  
 
Market Revenue Neutrality Offset:  
 
“Market Revenue Neutrality Offset” shall mean the revenue in excess of the cost for a resource 
from the energy, Synchronized Reserve, Non-Synchronized Reserve, and Secondary Reserve 
markets realized from an increase in real-time market megawatt assignment from a day-ahead 
market megawatt assignment in any of these markets due to the decrease in the real-time reserve 
market megawatt assignment from a day-ahead reserve market megawatt assignment in any of 
the reserve markets. 
 
Market Seller Offer Cap: 
 
“Market Seller Offer Cap” shall mean a maximum offer price applicable to certain Market 
Sellers under certain conditions, as determined in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD. 
section 6 and Tariff, Attachment M-Appendix, section II.E.    
 
Market Violation: 
 
“Market Violation” shall mean a tariff violation, violation of a Commission-approved order, rule 
or regulation, market manipulation, or inappropriate dispatch that creates substantial concerns 
regarding unnecessary market inefficiencies, as defined in 18 C.F.R. § 35.28(b)(8). 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 8 
 
Material Modification: 
 
“Material Modification” shall mean any modification to an Interconnection Request that has a 
material adverse effect on the cost or timing of Interconnection Studies related to, or any 
Network Upgrades or Local Upgrades needed to accommodate, any Interconnection Request 
with a later Queue Position. 
 
Maximum Daily Starts: 
 
“Maximum Daily Starts” shall mean the maximum number of times that a generating unit can be 
started in an Operating Day under normal operating conditions. 
 
Maximum Emergency: 
 
“Maximum Emergency” shall mean the designation of all or part of the output of a generating 
unit for which the designated output levels may require extraordinary procedures and therefore 
are available to the Office of the Interconnection only when the Office of the Interconnection 
declares a Maximum Generation Emergency and requests generation designated as Maximum 
Emergency to run.  The Office of the Interconnection shall post on the PJM website the 
aggregate amount of megawatts that are classified as Maximum Emergency. 
 
Maximum Facility Output: 
 
“Maximum Facility Output” shall mean the maximum (not nominal) net electrical power output 
in megawatts, specified in the Interconnection Service Agreement, after supply of any parasitic 
or host facility loads, that a Generation Interconnection Customer’s Customer Facility is 
expected to produce, provided that the specified Maximum Facility Output shall not exceed the 
output of the proposed Customer Facility that Transmission Provider utilized in the System 
Impact Study. 
 
Maximum Generation Emergency: 
 
“Maximum Generation Emergency” shall mean an Emergency declared by the Office of the 
Interconnection to address either a generation or transmission emergency in which the Office of 
the Interconnection anticipates requesting one or more Generation Capacity Resources, or Non-
Retail Behind The Meter Generation resources to operate at its maximum net or gross electrical 
power output, subject to the equipment stress limits for such Generation Capacity Resource or 
Non-Retail Behind The Meter resource in order to manage, alleviate, or end the Emergency. 
 
Maximum Generation Emergency Alert:  
 
“Maximum Generation Emergency Alert” shall mean an alert issued by the Office of the 
Interconnection to notify PJM Members, Transmission Owners, resource owners and operators, 
customers, and regulators that a Maximum Generation Emergency may be declared, for any 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 9 
Operating Day in either, as applicable, the Day-ahead Energy Market or the Real-time Energy 
Market, for all or any part of such Operating Day. 
 
Maximum Run Time: 
 
“Maximum Run Time” shall mean the maximum number of hours a generating unit can run over 
the course of an Operating Day, as measured by PJM’s State Estimator. 
 
Maximum Weekly Starts: 
 
“Maximum Weekly Starts” shall mean the maximum number of times that a generating unit can 
be started in one week, defined as the 168 hour period starting Monday 0001 hour, under normal 
operating conditions. 
 
Member: 
  
“Member” shall have the meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Merchant A.C. Transmission Facilities: 
 
“Merchant A.C. Transmission Facility” shall mean Merchant Transmission Facilities that are 
alternating current (A.C.) transmission facilities, other than those that are Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities.  
 
Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities: 
 
“Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities” shall mean direct current (D.C.) transmission facilities 
that are interconnected with the Transmission System pursuant to Tariff, Part IV and Part VI.  
 
Merchant Network Upgrades: 
 
“Merchant Network Upgrades” shall mean additions to, or modifications or replacements of, 
physical facilities of the Interconnected Transmission Owner that, on the date of the pertinent 
Transmission Interconnection Customer’s Upgrade Request, are part of the Transmission System 
or are included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan. 
 
Merchant Transmission Facilities: 
 
“Merchant Transmission Facilities” shall mean A.C. or D.C. transmission facilities that are 
interconnected with or added to the Transmission System pursuant to Tariff, Part IV and Part VI 
and that are so identified in Tariff, Attachment T, provided, however, that Merchant 
Transmission Facilities shall not include (i) any Customer Interconnection Facilities, (ii) any 
physical facilities of the Transmission System that were in existence on or before March 20, 
2003 ; (iii) any expansions or enhancements of the Transmission System that are not identified as 
Merchant Transmission Facilities in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan and Attachment 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 10 
T to the Tariff, or (iv) any transmission facilities that are included in the rate base of a public 
utility and on which a regulated return is earned. 
 
Merchant Transmission Provider: 
 
“Merchant Transmission Provider” shall mean an Interconnection Customer that (1) owns,  
controls, or controls the rights to use the transmission capability of, Merchant D.C. Transmission 
Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities that connect the 
Transmission System with another control area, (2) has elected to receive Transmission Injection 
Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights associated with such facility pursuant to Tariff, Part 
IV, section 36, and (3) makes (or will make) the transmission capability of such facilities 
available for use by third parties under terms and conditions approved by the Commission and 
stated in the Tariff, consistent with Tariff, section 38. 
 
Metering Equipment: 
 
“Metering Equipment” shall mean all metering equipment installed at the metering points 
designated in the appropriate appendix to an Interconnection Service Agreement. 
 
Minimum Annual Resource Requirement: 
 
“Minimum Annual Resource Requirement” shall mean, for Delivery Years through May 31, 
2017,   the minimum amount of capacity that PJM will seek to procure from Annual Resources 
for the PJM Region and for each Locational Deliverability Area for which the Office of the 
Interconnection is required under Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.10(a) to establish a separate 
VRR Curve for such Delivery Year.  For the PJM Region, the Minimum Annual Resource 
Requirement shall be equal to the RTO Reliability Requirement minus [the Sub-Annual 
Resource Reliability Target for the RTO in Unforced Capacity].  For an LDA, the Minimum 
Annual Resource Requirement shall be equal to the LDA Reliability Requirement minus [the 
LDA CETL] minus [the Sub-Annual Resource Reliability Target for such LDA in Unforced 
Capacity]. The LDA CETL may be adjusted pro rata for the amount of load served under the 
FRR Alternative. 
 
Minimum Down Time: 
 
For all generating units that are not combined cycle units, “Minimum Down Time” shall mean 
the minimum number of hours under normal operating conditions between unit shutdown and 
unit startup, calculated as the shortest time difference between the unit’s generator breaker 
opening and after the unit’s generator breaker closure, which is typically indicated by 
telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero. For combined cycle 
units, “Minimum Down Time” shall mean the minimum number of hours between the last 
generator breaker opening and after first combustion turbine generator breaker closure, which is 
typically indicated by telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero. 
 
Minimum Extended Summer Resource Requirement: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 11 
“Minimum Extended Summer Resource Requirement” shall mean, for Delivery Years through 
May 31, 2017, the minimum amount of capacity that PJM will seek to procure from Extended 
Summer Demand Resources and Annual Resources for the PJM Region and for each Locational 
Deliverability Area for which the Office of the Interconnection is required under Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.10(a) to establish a separate VRR Curve for such Delivery Year.  For 
the PJM Region, the Minimum Extended Summer Resource Requirement shall be equal to the 
RTO Reliability Requirement minus [the Limited Demand Resource Reliability Target for the 
PJM Region in Unforced Capacity].  For an LDA, the Minimum Extended Summer Resource 
Requirement shall be equal to the LDA Reliability Requirement minus [the LDA CETL] minus 
[the Limited Demand Resource Reliability Target for such LDA in Unforced Capacity].  The 
LDA CETL may be adjusted pro rata for the amount of load served under the FRR Alternative. 
 
Minimum Generation Emergency: 
 
“Minimum Generation Emergency” shall mean an Emergency declared by the Office of the 
Interconnection in which the Office of the Interconnection anticipates requesting one or more 
generating resources to operate at or below Normal Minimum Generation, in order to manage, 
alleviate, or end the Emergency. 
 
Minimum Participation Requirements: 
 
“Minimum Participation Requirements” shall mean a set of minimum training, risk management, 
communication and capital or collateral requirements required for Participants in the PJM 
Markets, as set forth herein and in the Form of Annual Certification set forth as Tariff, 
Attachment Q, Appendix 1.  Participants transacting in FTRs in certain circumstances will be 
required to demonstrate additional risk management procedures and controls as further set forth 
in the Annual Certification found in Tariff, Attachment Q, Appendix 1. 
 
Minimum Run Time: 
 
For all generating units that are not combined cycle units, “Minimum Run Time” shall mean the 
minimum number of hours a unit must run, in real-time operations, from the time after generator 
breaker closure, which is typically indicated by telemetered or aggregated State Estimator 
megawatts greater than zero, to the time of generator breaker opening, as measured by PJM's 
State Estimator. For combined cycle units, “Minimum Run Time” shall mean the time period 
after the first combustion turbine generator breaker closure, which is typically indicated by 
telemetered or aggregated State Estimator megawatts greater than zero, and the last generator 
breaker opening as measured by PJM’s State Estimator. 
 
MISO: 
 
“MISO” shall mean the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. or any successor 
thereto. 
 
Mixed Technology Facility: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 12 
“Mixed Technology Facility” shall mean a facility composed of distinct generation and/or 
electric storage technology types behind the same Point of Interconnection.  Co-Located 
Resources and Hybrid Resources form all or part of Mixed Technology Facilities. 
 
MOPR Floor Offer Price: 
 
“MOPR Floor Offer Price” shall mean a minimum offer price applicable to certain Market 
Seller’s Capacity Resources under certain conditions, as determined in accordance with Tariff, 
Attachment DD, sections 5.14(h), 5.14(h-1), and 5.14(h-2). 
 
Multi-Driver Project: 
 
“Multi-Driver Project” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Native Load Customers: 
 
“Native Load Customers” shall mean the wholesale and retail power customers of a 
Transmission Owner on whose behalf the Transmission Owner, by statute, franchise, regulatory 
requirement, or contract, has undertaken an obligation to construct and operate the Transmission 
Owner’s system to meet the reliable electric needs of such customers. 
 
Near-Term Transmission Service: 
 
“Near-Term Transmission Service” shall mean Transmission Service which ends not more than 
10 days after the Transmission Service request date.  When the description of obligations below 
refers to either a request for information about the availability of potential Transmission Service 
(including, but not limited to, a request for ATC), or to the posting of ATC or other information 
related to potential service, the date that the information is requested or posted will serve as the 
Transmission Service request date.  “Near-Term Transmission Service” includes any Point-To-
Point Transmission Service and Network Integration Transmission Service where the start and 
end date of the designation or request is within the next 10 days. 
 
NERC: 
 
“NERC” shall mean the North American Electric Reliability Corporation or any successor 
thereto. 
 
NERC Interchange Distribution Calculator: 
 
“NERC Interchange Distribution Calculator” shall mean the NERC mechanism that is in effect 
and being used to calculate the distribution of energy, over specific transmission interfaces, from 
energy transactions. 
 
Net Benefits Test:  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 13 
“Net Benefits Test” shall mean a calculation to determine whether the benefits of a reduction in 
price resulting from the dispatch of Economic Load Response exceeds the cost to other loads 
resulting from the billing unit effects of the load reduction, as specified in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 3.3A.4 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
3.3A.4. 
 
Net Cost of New Entry:   
 
“Net Cost of New Entry” shall mean the Cost of New Entry minus the Net Energy and Ancillary 
Service Revenue Offset. 
 
Net Obligation: 
  
“Net Obligation” shall mean the amount owed to PJMSettlement and PJM for purchases from the 
PJM Markets, Transmission Service, (under Tariff, Parts II and III , and other services pursuant 
to the Agreements, after applying a deduction for amounts owed to a Participant by 
PJMSettlement as it pertains to monthly market activity and services.  Should other markets be 
formed such that Participants may incur future Obligations in those markets, then the aggregate 
amount of those Obligations will also be added to the Net Obligation. 
 
Net Sell Position: 
  
“Net Sell Position” shall mean the amount of Net Obligation when Net Obligation is negative. 
 
Network Customer: 
 
“Network Customer” shall mean an entity receiving transmission service pursuant to the terms of 
the Transmission Provider’s Network Integration Transmission Service under Tariff, Part III. 
 
Network External Designated Transmission Service: 
 
“Network External Designated Transmission Service” shall have the meaning set forth in 
Reliability Assurance Agreement, Article I. 
 
Network Integration Transmission Service: 
 
“Network Integration Transmission Service” shall mean the transmission service provided under 
Tariff, Part III. 
 
Network Load: 
 
“Network Load” shall mean the load that a Network Customer designates for Network 
Integration Transmission Service under Tariff, Part III.  The Network Customer’s Network Load 
shall include all load (including losses, Non-Dispatched Charging Energy, and Load Serving 
Charging Energy) served by the output of any Network Resources designated by the Network 
Customer.  A Network Customer may elect to designate less than its total load as Network Load 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 14 
but may not designate only part of the load at a discrete Point of Delivery.  Where an Eligible 
Customer has elected not to designate a particular load at discrete points of delivery as Network 
Load, the Eligible Customer is responsible for making separate arrangements under Tariff, Part 
II for any Point-To-Point Transmission Service that may be necessary for such non-designated 
load.  Network Load shall not include Dispatched Charging Energy. 
 
Network Operating Agreement: 
 
“Network Operating Agreement” shall mean an executed agreement that contains the terms and 
conditions under which the Network Customer shall operate its facilities and the technical and 
operational matters associated with the implementation of Network Integration Transmission 
Service under Tariff, Part III. 
 
Network Operating Committee: 
 
“Network Operating Committee” shall mean a group made up of representatives from the 
Network Customer(s) and the Transmission Provider established to coordinate operating criteria 
and other technical considerations required for implementation of Network Integration 
Transmission Service under Tariff, Part III.  
 
Network Resource: 
 
“Network Resource” shall mean any designated generating resource owned, purchased, or leased 
by a Network Customer under the Network Integration Transmission Service Tariff.  Network 
Resources do not include any resource, or any portion thereof, that is committed for sale to third 
parties or otherwise cannot be called upon to meet the Network Customer’s Network Load on a 
non-interruptible basis, except for purposes of fulfilling obligations under a reserve sharing 
program. 
 
Network Service User: 
 
“Network Service User” shall mean an entity using Network Transmission Service. 
 
Network Transmission Service: 
 
“Network Transmission Service” shall mean transmission service provided pursuant to the rates, 
terms and conditions set forth in Tariff, Part III, or transmission service comparable to such 
service that is provided to a Load Serving Entity that is also a Transmission Owner. 
 
Network Upgrades: 
 
“Network Upgrades” shall mean modifications or additions to transmission-related facilities that 
are integrated with and support the Transmission Provider’s overall Transmission System for the 
general benefit of all users of such Transmission System. Network Upgrades shall include: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 15 
 (i) Direct Connection Network Upgrades which are Network Upgrades that are not part 
of an Affected System; only serve the Customer Interconnection Facility; and have no impact or 
potential impact on the Transmission System until the final tie-in is complete.  Both 
Transmission Provider and Interconnection Customer must agree as to what constitutes Direct 
Connection Network Upgrades and identify them in the Interconnection Construction Service 
Agreement, Schedule D.  If the Transmission Provider and Interconnection Customer disagree 
about whether a particular Network Upgrade is a Direct Connection Network Upgrade, the 
Transmission Provider must provide the Interconnection Customer a written technical 
explanation outlining why the Transmission Provider does not consider the Network Upgrade to 
be a Direcct Connection Network Upgrade within 15 days of its determination. 
 
 (ii) Non-Direct Connection Network Upgrades which are parallel flow Network 
Upgrades that are not Direct Connection Network Upgrades. 
 
Neutral Party: 
 
“Neutral Party” shall have the meaning provided in Tariff, Part I, section 9.3(v). 
 
New Entry Capacity Resource with State Subsidy: 
 
“New Entry Capacity Resource with State Subsidy” shall mean (1) starting with the 2022/2023 
Delivery Year, the MWs (in installed capacity) comprising a Capacity Resource with State 
Subsidy that have not cleared in an RPM Auction pursuant to its Sell Offer at or above its 
resource-specific MOPR Floor Offer Price or the applicable default New Entry MOPR Floor 
Offer Price or (2) starting with the Base Residual Auction for the 2022/2023 Delivery Year, any 
of those MWs (in installed capacity) comprising a Capacity Resource with State Subsidy that 
was not included in an FRR Capacity Plan at the time of the Base Residual Auction or the 
subject of a Sell Offer in a Base Residual Auction occurring for a Delivery Year after it last 
cleared an RPM Auction and since then has yet to clear an RPM Auction pursuant to its Sell 
Offer at or above its resource-specific MOPR Floor Offer Price or the applicable default New 
Entry MOPR Floor Offer Price.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Capacity Resource that 
previously cleared an RPM Auction before it became entitled to receive a State Subsidy shall not 
be deemed a New Entry Capacity Resource, unless, starting with the Base Residual Auction for 
the 2022/2023 Delivery Year, the Capacity Resource with State Subsidy was not the subject of a 
Sell Offer in a Base Residual Auction or included in an FRR Capacity Plan at the time of the 
Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year after it last cleared an RPM Auction. 
 
New PJM Zone(s): 
 
“New PJM Zone(s)” shall mean the Zone included in the Tariff, along with applicable Schedules 
and Attachments, for Commonwealth Edison Company, The Dayton Power and Light Company 
and the AEP East Operating Companies (Appalachian Power Company, Columbus Southern 
Power Company, Indiana Michigan Power Company, Kentucky Power Company, Kingsport 
Power Company, Ohio Power Company and Wheeling Power Company). 
 
New Service Customers: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 16 
 
“New Service Customers” shall mean all customers that submit an Interconnection Request, a 
Completed Application, or an Upgrade Request that is pending in the New Services Queue. 
 
New Service Request: 
 
“New Service Request” shall mean an Interconnection Request, a Completed Application, or an 
Upgrade Request. 
 
New Services Queue: 
 
“New Services Queue” shall mean all Interconnection Requests, Completed Applications, and 
Upgrade Requests that are received within each six-month period ending on March 31 and 
September 30 of each year shall collectively comprise a New Services Queue. 
 
New York ISO or NYISO: 
 
“New York ISO” or “NYISO” shall mean the New York Independent System Operator, Inc. or 
any successor thereto. 
 
Nodal Reference Price: 
  
The “Nodal Reference Price” at each location shall mean the 97th percentile price differential 
between day-ahead and real-time prices experienced over the corresponding two-month 
reference period in the prior calendar year.   Reference periods will be Jan-Feb, Mar-Apr, May-
Jun, Jul-Aug, Sept-Oct, Nov-Dec.  For any given current-year month, the reference period 
months will be the set of two months in the prior calendar year that include the month 
corresponding to the current month.  For example, July and August 2003 would each use July-
August 2002 as their reference period. 
 
No-load Cost:  
 
“No-load Cost” shall mean the hourly cost required to theoretically operate a synchronized unit 
at zero MW. It consists primarily of the cost of fuel, as determined by the unit’s no load heat 
(adjusted by the performance factor) times the fuel cost. It also includes operating costs, 
Maintenance Adders, and emissions allowances. 
 
Nominal Rated Capability: 
 
“Nominal Rated Capability” shall mean the nominal maximum rated capability in megawatts of 
a Transmission Interconnection Customer’s Customer Facility or the nominal increase in 
transmission capability in megawatts of the Transmission System resulting from the 
interconnection or addition of a Transmission Interconnection Customer’s Customer Facility, as 
determined in accordance with pertinent Applicable Standards and specified in the 
Interconnection Service Agreement. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 17 
Nominated Demand Resource Value: 
 
“Nominated Demand Resource Value” shall mean the amount of load reduction that a Demand 
Resource commits to provide either through direct load control, firm service level or guaranteed 
load drop programs.  For existing Demand Resources, the maximum Nominated Demand 
Resource Value is limited, in accordance with the PJM Manuals, to the value appropriate for the 
method by which the load reduction would be accomplished, at the time the Base Residual 
Auction or Incremental Auction is being conducted. 
 
Nominated Energy Efficiency Value:  
 
“Nominated Energy Efficiency Value” shall mean the amount of load reduction that an Energy 
Efficiency Resource commits to provide through installation of more efficient devices or 
equipment or implementation of more efficient processes or systems. 
 
Non-Dispatched Charging Energy:  
 
“Non-Dispatched Charging Energy” shall mean all Direct Charging Energy that an Energy 
Storage Resource Model Participant or Open-Loop Hybrid Resource receives from the electric 
grid that is not otherwise Dispatched Charging Energy. 
 
Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service: 
 
“Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service” shall mean Point-To-Point Transmission 
Service under the Tariff that is reserved and scheduled on an as-available basis and is subject to 
Curtailment or Interruption as set forth in Tariff, Part II, section 14.7.  Non-Firm Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service is available on a stand-alone basis for periods ranging from one hour to 
one month. 
 
Non-Firm Sale: 
 
“Non-Firm Sale” shall mean an energy sale for which receipt or delivery may be interrupted for 
any reason or no reason, without liability on the part of either the buyer or seller. 
 
Non-Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights: 
 
“No-Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights” shall mean the rights to schedule energy 
withdrawals from a specified point on the Transmission System. Non-Firm Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights may be awarded only to a Merchant D.C. Transmission Facility that connects 
the Transmission System to another control area. Withdrawals scheduled using Non-Firm 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights have rights similar to those under Non-Firm Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service. 
 
Non-Performance Charge: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 18 
“Non-Performance Charge” shall mean the charge applicable to Capacity Performance 
Resources as defined in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 10A(e). 
 
Nonincumbent Developer: 
 
“Nonincumbent Developer” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Non-Regulatory Opportunity Cost: 
 “Non-Regulatory Opportunity Cost” shall mean the difference between (a) the forecasted cost to 
operate a specific generating unit when the unit only has a limited number of starts or available 
run hours resulting from (i) the physical equipment limitations of the unit, for up to one year, due 
to original equipment manufacturer recommendations or insurance carrier restrictions, (ii) a fuel 
supply limitation, for up to one year, resulting from an event of Catastrophic Force Majeure; and,  
(b) the forecasted future Locational Marginal Price at which the generating unit could run while 
not violating such limitations.  Non-Regulatory Opportunity Cost therefore is the value 
associated with a specific generating unit’s lost opportunity to produce energy during a higher 
valued period of time occurring within the same period of time in which the unit is bound by the 
referenced restrictions, and is reflected in the rules set forth in PJM Manual 15.  Non-Regulatory 
Opportunity Costs shall be limited to those resources which are specifically delineated in 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 2.  
 
Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation: 
 
“Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation” shall mean Behind the Meter Generation that is used 
by municipal electric systems, electric cooperatives, or electric distribution companies to serve 
load. 
 
Non-Synchronized Reserve: 
 
“Non-Synchronized Reserve” shall mean the reserve capability of non-emergency generation 
resources that can be converted fully into energy within ten minutes of a request from the Office 
of the Interconnection dispatcher, and is provided by equipment that is not electrically 
synchronized to the Transmission System. 
 
Non-Synchronized Reserve Event: 
 
“Non-Synchronized Reserve Event” shall mean a request from the Office of the Interconnection 
to generation resources able and assigned to provide Non-Synchronized Reserve in one or more 
specified Reserve Zones or Reserve Sub-zones, within ten minutes to increase the energy output 
by the amount of assigned Non-Synchronized Reserve capability. 
 
Non-Variable Loads: 
“Non-Variable Loads” shall have the meaning specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 1.5A.6, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 1.5A.6. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - L - M - N 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 19 
Non-Zone Network Load: 
 
“Non-Zone Network Load shall mean Network Load that is located outside of the PJM Region. 
 
Normal Maximum Generation: 
 
“Normal Maximum Generation” shall mean the highest output level of a generating resource 
under normal operating conditions. 
 
Normal Minimum Generation: 
 
“Normal Minimum Generation” shall mean the lowest output level of a generating resource 