[SCHEDULE 12 - Part 18 of 18]

Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights associated with each Incremental Rights-Eligible Required 
Transmission Enhancement for which the Responsible Customer has been assigned cost 
responsibility pursuant to Tariff, Schedule 12.  The megawatt quantity of Incremental Capacity 
Transfer Rights allocated to Responsible Customers shall be based on the percentage cost 
responsibility assigned to the Responsible Customers for the particular facility as set forth in 
Tariff, Schedule 12-Appendix.  During the Delivery Year, Network Customers within a Zone 
that are Responsible Customers shall be allocated Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights based on 
their percentage share, determined daily of the network service peak load of the Zone.  To the 
extent one or more Transmission Customers with agreements for Firm Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service are assigned costs of such facility pursuant to Tariff, Schedule 12 or other 
Tariff provisions assigning Tariff, Schedule 12 costs in a Zone, such customer(s) shall be 
allocated a share of Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights identified for such Zone consistent 
with such Transmission Customer’s assigned Tariff, Schedule 12 cost responsibility.  
Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights shall be re-allocated annually to reflect the annual 
recalculation of Transmission Enhancement Charges under Tariff, Schedule 12, section (c). 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12-B - Allocation of Costs of Certain Inter 
Effective Date: 4/18/2019 - Docket #: ER19-1599-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 12-B 
 
Allocation of Costs of Certain Interregional Transmission Projects  
Located in the PJM and SERTP Regions 
 
 
1.  Cost Allocation: The PJM Region portion determined under Section 3 of this Schedule 
12-B of the cost of an interregional transmission project located in the PJM Region and the 
Southeastern Regional Transmission Planning Process (“SERTP”) region shall be allocated in 
accordance with Schedule 12 of the Tariff, provided that the interregional transmission project 
satisfies all of the criteria in Section 2 of this Schedule 12-B.   
 
2. Proposal of Interregional Transmission Projects for Interregional Cost Allocation 
Purposes:  For an interregional transmission project to be eligible for interregional cost 
allocation purposes within the SERTP region and the PJM Region, all of the following criteria 
must be met:  
 
A. The interregional transmission project must be interregional in nature, which 
requires that it must:  
• Be physically located in both the SERTP region and the PJM Region; 
• Interconnect to transmission facilities in both the PJM and SERTP regions.  
The facilities to which the project is proposed to interconnect may be either 
existing transmission facilities or transmission projects included in the 
regional transmission expansion plan that are currently under development; 
and 
• Meet the threshold criteria for transmission projects potentially eligible to be 
included in the regional transmission plans for purposes of cost allocation in 
both the SERTP region and the PJM Region, pursuant to the regional 
transmission planning process of the SERTP region and the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan prepared by the Office of the Interconnection 
pursuant to Schedule 6 of the Operating Agreement, respectively. 
 
B. The interregional transmission project must be proposed for purposes of cost 
allocation in both the SERTP region and the PJM Region: 
• The transmission developer and project submittal must satisfy all criteria 
specified in the respective regional transmission processes; and 
• The proposal should be submitted in the timeframes outlined in the respective 
regional transmission planning processes. 
 
C. The interregional transmission project must be selected both in the regional 
transmission plan of the SERTP region and in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan 
prepared by the Office of the Interconnection for the PJM Region: 
• The costs of the interregional transmission project eligible for interregional 
cost allocation shall only be allocated to a region if that region has selected the 
interregional transmission project in its regional transmission plan for 
purposes of cost allocation; and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12-B - Allocation of Costs of Certain Inter 
Effective Date: 4/18/2019 - Docket #: ER19-1599-000 - Page 2 
• No cost shall be allocated to a region that has not selected the interregional 
transmission project in its regional transmission plan for purposes of cost 
allocation. 
 
3. Allocation of Costs for Interregional Transmission Projects Between the SERTP 
and PJM Regions:  The cost of an interregional transmission project selected for purposes of 
cost allocation in the regional transmission plans of both the SERTP region and PJM Region 
shall be allocated for interregional cost allocation purposes to those regions as provided below:  
 
A.  The share of the costs of an interregional transmission project allocated to a 
region will be determined by the ratio of the present value(s) of the estimated costs of such 
region’s displaced regional transmission project(s) to the total of the present values of the 
estimated costs of the displaced regional transmission projects in all regions that have selected 
the interregional transmission project in their regional transmission plans for purposes of cost 
allocation.  The present values used in the cost allocation shall be based on a common date, 
comparable cost components, and the latest cost estimates used in the determination to include 
the interregional transmission project in the respective regional plans for purposes of cost 
allocation.  The applicable discount rate(s) used for the SERTP region for interregional cost 
allocation purposes will be based upon the after-tax weighted average cost of capital of the 
SERTP transmission owners whose projects would be displaced by the proposed interregional 
transmission project. The applicable discount rate for the PJM Region shall be the discount rate 
included in the assumptions that are reviewed with the PJM Board of Managers each year for use 
in the economic planning process.  
 
B. When all or a portion of an interregional transmission project is to be located 
within a region in which there is no displaced regional transmission project, such region may, at 
its sole discretion, select the interregional transmission project for inclusion in its regional 
transmission plan; provided, however, that no portion of the costs of the interregional 
transmission project shall be allocated to such region pursuant to Section 3(A). 
 
C. Nothing in this Schedule 12-B shall govern the further allocation of costs 
allocated to a region pursuant to this Section 3 within such region.  For purposes of clarification, 
the further allocation of costs allocated by this Section 3 within the PJM Region shall be 
governed by the applicable provisions of Schedule 12 of the Tariff. 
 
D. The following example illustrates the cost allocation provisions in Section 3:  
• Regions A and B, through the joint evaluation process prescribed in Schedule 
6-A of the Operating Agreement have included Transmission Project Z in 
their respective regional plans for purposes of cost allocation. Transmission 
Project Z was determined to address both regions’ needs more efficiently or 
cost effectively than Transmission Project X in Region A and Transmission 
Project Y in Region B. 
• The estimated cost of Transmission Projects X and Y are Cost (X) and Cost 
(Y) respectively. As described in Section 3(A), these costs shall be based upon 
common cost components. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12-B - Allocation of Costs of Certain Inter 
Effective Date: 4/18/2019 - Docket #: ER19-1599-000 - Page 3 
• The number of years from the common present value date to the year 
associated with the cost estimates of Transmission Projects X and Y are N(X) 
and N(Y) respectively. 
• Recognizing that the regions may have different discount rates, for purposes 
of this example DA is the discount rate used for Transmission Project X and 
DB is the discount rate used for Transmission Project Y. 
• Based on the foregoing assumptions and the allocation of costs based upon 
displaced regional transmission projects as prescribed in Section 3(A), the 
following illustrative formulas would be used:  
▪ Present Value of Cost (X) = PV Cost (X) = Cost (X) / (1+ DA)N(X) 
▪ Present Value of Cost (Y) = PV Cost (Y) = Cost (Y) / (1+ DB)N(Y) 
▪ Cost Allocation to Region A = PV Cost (X) / [PV Cost (X) + PV Cost 
(Y)]  
▪ Cost Allocation to Region B = PV Cost (Y) / [PV Cost (X) + PV Cost 
(Y)]  
• Applying the above formulas, if:   
▪ Cost (X) = $60 Million and N(X) = 8.25 years 
▪ Cost (Y) = $40 Million and N(Y) = 4.50 years 
▪ DA = 7.5%  per year  
▪ DB = 7.4% per year 
 
• Then:  
▪ PV Cost (X) = 60/(1+0.075)8.25  =  33.0 Million 
▪ PV Cost (Y) = 40/(1+0.074)4.50  =  29.0 Million 
▪ Cost Allocation to Region A = 33.0 / (33.0 + 29.0) = 53.2% of the cost 
of Transmission Project Z  
▪ Cost Allocation to Region B = 29.0 / (33.0 + 29.0) = 46.8% of the cost 
of Transmission Project Z 
 
4. Merchant Transmission and Transmission Owner Projects:  Nothing in this Schedule 
12-B shall preclude the development of interregional transmission projects that are funded by 
merchant transmission developers or by individual transmission owners.  
 
5. Exclusivity with Respect to Interregional Transmission Projects Selected for 
Interregional Cost Allocation Purposes:  The following provisions shall apply regarding other 
cost allocation arrangements:  
 
A. Except as provided in Section 5(B), the provisions in this Schedule 12-B are the 
exclusive means by which any costs of an interregional transmission project selected for 
interregional cost allocation purposes between the SERTP region and the PJM Region may be 
allocated between or among those regions. 
 
B. A transmission owner(s) or transmission developer(s) may propose to fund or 
allocate, on a voluntary basis, the cost of an interregional transmission project selected for 
interregional cost allocation purposes using an allocation other than the allocation that results 
from the methodology set forth in Section 3, provided that, should the allocation of cost of such 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 12-B - Allocation of Costs of Certain Inter 
Effective Date: 4/18/2019 - Docket #: ER19-1599-000 - Page 4 
interregional transmission project be subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction, such allocation 
proposal is accepted for filing by the Commission in accordance with the filing rights with 
respect to cost allocation set forth in Section 6 of this Schedule 12-B and provided further that no 
allocation shall be made to any region that has not agreed to that allocation. 
 
6. Section 205 Filing Rights with Respect to Interregional Transmission Projects 
Selected for Interregional Cost Allocation Purposes:  Solely with respect to interregional 
transmission projects evaluated under Schedule 6-A of the Operating Agreement and selected by 
the SERTP and PJM regional transmission planning processes for purposes of interregional cost 
allocation purposes, the following provisions shall apply: 
 
A. Except as provided in Sections 5 and 6(B) of this Schedule 12-B, nothing in this 
Schedule 12-B will convey, expand, limit or otherwise alter any rights of the transmission 
owners, transmission developers or other market participants to submit filings under Section 205 
of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) regarding cost allocation or any other matter. 
 
B. The cost allocation provisions in this Schedule 12-B shall not be modified under 
Section 205 of the FPA without the mutual consent of the holders of the FPA Section 205 rights 
with respect to interregional cost allocation in the SERTP region and the PJM Region.   
 
7. Consequences to Other Regions from Interregional Transmission Projects: Except 
as provided in this Schedule 12-B, or in other documents, agreements or tariffs on file with the 
Commission, neither the PJM Region nor the transmission providers in the SERTP region shall 
be responsible for compensating another planning region for required upgrades or for any other 
consequences in another planning region associated with interregional transmission projects 
identified pursuant to Schedule 6-A of the Operating Agreement. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT SCHEDULE 13 
Effective Date: 4/18/2019 - Docket #: ER19-1599-000 - Page 1 
