[SCHEDULE 9 - Part 1 of 2]

Schedule 9. 
 
PJM Board: 
 
“PJM Board” shall mean the Board of Managers of the LLC, acting pursuant to the Operating 
Agreement except when such term is being used in Tariff, Attachment M, in which case PJM 
Board shall mean the Board of Managers of PJM or its designated representative, exclusive of 
any members of PJM Management. 
 
PJM Control Area: 
 
“PJM Control Area” shall mean the Control Area recognized by NERC as the PJM Control Area. 
 
PJM Entities: 
 
“PJM Entities” shall mean PJM, including the Market Monitoring Unit, the PJM Board, and PJM’s 
officers, employees, representatives, advisors, contractors, and consultants. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 7 
 
PJM Interchange: 
 
“PJM Interchange” shall mean the following, as determined in accordance with the Operating 
Agreement and Tariff: (a) for a Market Participant that is a Network Service User, the amount by 
which its interval Equivalent Load exceeds, or is exceeded by, the sum of the interval outputs of 
its operating generating resources; or (b) for a Market Participant that is not a Network Service 
User, the amount of its Spot Market Backup; or (c) the interval scheduled deliveries of Spot 
Market Energy by a Market Seller from an External Resource; or (d) the interval net metered 
output of any other Market Seller; or (e) the interval scheduled deliveries of Spot Market Energy 
to an External Market Buyer; or (f) the inteval scheduled deliveries to an Internal Market Buyer 
that is not a Network Service User. 
 
PJM Interchange Energy Market: 
 
“PJM Interchange Energy Market” shall mean the regional competitive market administered by 
the Office of the Interconnection for the purchase and sale of spot electric energy at wholesale in 
interstate commerce and related services established pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 
1, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K – Appendix. 
 
PJM Interchange Export: 
 
“PJM Interchange Export” shall mean the following, as determined in accordance with the 
Operating Agreement and Tariff:  (a) for a Market Participant that is a Network Service User, the 
amount by which its interval Equivalent Load is exceeded by the sum of the inteval outputs of its 
operating generating resources; or (b) for a Market Participant that is not a Network Service 
User, the amount of its Spot Market Backup sales; or (c) the interval scheduled deliveries of Spot 
Market Energy by a Market Seller from an External Resource; or (d) the interval net metered 
output of any other Market Seller. 
 
PJM Interchange Import: 
 
“PJM Interchange Import” shall mean the following, as determined in accordance with the 
Operating Agreement and Tariff:  (a) for a Market Participant that is a Network Service User, the 
amount by which its interval Equivalent Load exceeds the sum of the interval outputs of its 
operating generating resources; or (b) for a Market Participant that is not a Network Service 
User, the amount of its Spot Market Backup purchases; or (c) the interval scheduled deliveries of 
Spot Market Energy to an External Market Buyer; or (d) the interval scheduled deliveries to an 
Internal Market Buyer that is not a Network Service User. 
 
PJM Liaison: 
 
“PJM Liaison” shall mean the liaison established under Tariff, Attachment M, section III.I. 
 
PJM Management: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 8 
“PJM Management” shall mean the officers, executives, supervisors and employee managers of 
PJM. 
 
PJM Manuals: 
 
“PJM Manuals” shall mean the instructions, rules, procedures and guidelines established by the 
Office of the Interconnection for the operation, planning, and accounting requirements of the 
PJM Region and the PJM Interchange Energy Market. 
 
PJM Markets: 
 
“PJM Markets” shall mean the PJM Interchange Energy Market, capacity markets, including the 
RPM auctions, and any other market operated by PJM, together with all bilateral or other wholesale 
electric power and energy transactions, capacity transactions, ancillary services transactions 
(including black start service), transmission transactions, Financial Transmission Rights 
transactions, or transactions in any other market operated under the Agreements within the PJM 
Region, wherein Market Participants may incur Obligations to PJM and/or PJMSettlement. 
 
PJM Market Rules: 
 
“PJM Market Rules” shall mean the rules, standards, procedures, and practices of the PJM 
Markets set forth in the PJM Tariff, the PJM Operating Agreement, the PJM Reliability 
Assurance Agreement, the PJM Consolidated Transmission Owners Agreement, the PJM 
Manuals, the PJM Regional Practices Document, the PJM-Midwest Independent Transmission 
System Operator Joint Operating Agreement or any other document setting forth market rules. 
 
PJM Net Assets: 
 
“PJM Net Assets” shall mean the total assets per PJM’s consolidated quarterly or year-end 
financial statements most recently issued as of the date of the receipt of written notice of a claim 
less amounts for which PJM is acting as a temporary custodian on behalf of its Members, 
transmission developers/Designated Entities, and generation developers, including, but not 
limited to, cash deposits related to credit requirement compliance, study and/or interconnection 
receivables, member prepayments, invoiced amounts collected from Net Buyers but have not yet 
been paid to Net Sellers, and excess congestion (as described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 
1, section 5.2.6, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.2.6). 
 
PJM Region: 
 
“PJM Region” shall have the meaning specified in the Operating Agreement.  
 
PJM Regional Practices Document: 
“PJM Regional Practices Document” shall mean the document of that title that compiles and 
describes the practices in the PJM Markets and that is made available in hard copy and on the 
Internet. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 9 
PJM Region Installed Reserve Margin: 
 
“PJM Region Installed Reserve Margin” shall mean the percent installed reserve margin for the 
PJM Region required pursuant to RAA, Schedule 4.1, as approved by the PJM Board. 
 
PJM Region Peak Load Forecast: 
 
“PJM Region Peak Load Forecast” shall mean the peak load forecast used by the Office of the 
Interconnection in determining the PJM Region Reliability Requirement, and shall be determined 
on both a preliminary and final basis as set forth in Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.   
 
PJM Region Reliability Requirement:  
 
“PJM Region Reliability Requirement” shall mean, for purposes of the Base Residual Auction, 
the Forecast Pool Requirement multiplied by the Preliminary PJM Region Peak Load Forecast, 
less the sum of all Preliminary Unforced Capacity Obligations of FRR Entities in the PJM 
Region; and, for purposes of the  Incremental Auctions, the Forecast Pool Requirement 
multiplied by the updated PJM Region Peak Load Forecast, less the sum of all updated Unforced 
Capacity Obligations of FRR Entities in the PJM Region. 
 
PJMSettlement:   
 
“PJM Settlement” or “PJM Settlement, Inc.” shall mean PJM Settlement, Inc. (or its successor), 
established by PJM as set forth in Operaitng Agreement, section 3.3. 
 
PJM Tariff, Tariff, O.A.T.T., OATT or PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff: 
 
“PJM Tariff,” “Tariff,” “O.A.T.T.,” “OATT,” or “PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff” shall 
mean that certain PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff, including any schedules, appendices or 
exhibits attached thereto, on file with FERC and as amended from time to time thereafter. 
 
Plan: 
 
“Plan” shall mean the PJM market monitoring plan set forth in Tariff, Attachment M. 
 
Planned Demand Resource: 
 
“Planned Demand Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Planned External Generation Capacity Resource: 
 
“Planned External Generation Capacity Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the 
Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Planned Generation Capacity Resource: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 10 
 
“Planned Generation Capacity Resource” shall have the meaning specified in the Reliability 
Assurance Agreement. 
 
Planning Period: 
 
“Planning Period” shall mean the 12 moths beginning June 1 and extending through May 31 of 
the following year, or such other period approved by the Members Committee. 
 
Planning Period Balance: 
 
“Planning Period Balance” shall mean the entire period of time remaining in the Planning Period 
following the month that a monthly auction is conducted.  
 
Planning Period Quarter: 
 
“Planning Period Quarter” shall mean any of the following three month periods in the Planning 
Period: June, July and August; September, October and November; December, January and 
February; or March, April and May. 
 
Point(s) of Delivery: 
 
“Point(s) of Delivery” shall mean the point(s) on the Transmission Provider’s Transmission 
System where capacity and energy transmitted by the Transmission Provider will be made 
available to the Receiving Party under Tariff, Part II.  The Point(s) of Delivery shall be specified 
in the Service Agreement for Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service. 
 
Point of Interconnection: 
 
“Point of Interconnection” shall mean the point or points where the Customer Interconnection 
Facilities interconnect with the Transmission Owner Interconnection Facilities or the 
Transmission System. 
 
Point(s) of Receipt: 
 
“Point(s) of Receipt” shall mean point(s) of interconnection on the Transmission Provider’s 
Transmission System where capacity and energy will be made available to the Transmission 
Provider by the Delivering Party under Tariff, Part II.  The Point(s) of Receipt shall be specified 
in the Service Agreement for Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service. 
 
Point-To-Point Transmission Service: 
 
“Point-To-Point Transmission Service shall mean the reservation and transmission of capacity 
and energy on either a firm or non-firm basis from the Point(s) of Receipt to the Point(s) of 
Delivery under Tariff, Part II. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 11 
Power Purchaser: 
 
“Power Purchaser” shall mean the entity that is purchasing the capacity and energy to be 
transmitted under the Tariff. 
 
PRD Curve: 
 
“PRD Curve” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
PRD Provider: 
 
“PRD Provider” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
PRD Reservation Price: 
 
“PRD Reservation” Price shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
PRD Substation:   
 
“PRD Substation” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Pre-Confirmed Application: 
 
“Pre-Confirmed Application” shall be an Application that commits the Eligible Customer to 
execute a Service Agreement upon receipt of notification that the Transmission Provider can 
provide the requested Transmission Service. 
 
Pre-Emergency Load Response Program: 
 
“Pre-Emergency Load Response Program” shall be the program by which Curtailment Service 
Providers may be compensated by PJM for Demand Resources that will reduce load when 
dispatched by PJM during pre-emergency conditions, and is described in Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 8 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 8.  
 
Pre-Expansion PJM Zones: 
 
“Pre-Expansion PJM Zones” shall be zones included in the Tariff, along with applicable 
Schedules and Attachments, for certain Transmission Owners – Atlantic City Electric Company, 
Baltimore Gas and Electric Company, Delmarva Power and Light Company, Jersey Central 
Power and Light Company, Mid-Atlantic Interstate Transmission, LLC (“MAIT”) (MAIT owns 
and operates the transmission facilities in the Metropolitan Edison Company Zone and the 
Pennsylvania Electric Company Zone), PECO Energy Company, Pennsylvania Power & Light 
Group, Potomac Electric Power Company, Public Service Electric and Gas Company, Allegheny 
Power, and Rockland Electric Company. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 12 
Price Responsive Demand: 
 
“Price Responsive Demand” shall have the meaning provided in the Reliability Assurance 
Agreement. 
 
Primary Reserve: 
 
“Primary Reserve” shall mean the total reserve capability of generation resources that can be 
converted fully into energy or Economic Load Response Participant resources whose demand 
can be reduced within ten minutes of a request from the Office of the Interconnection dispatcher, 
and is comprised of both Synchronized Reserve and Non-Synchronized Reserve. 
 
Primary Reserve Alert 
 
“Primary Reserve Alert” shall mean a notification from PJM to alert Members of an anticipated 
shortage of Operating Reserve capacity for a future critical period. 
 
Primary Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Primary Reserve Requirement” shall mean the megawatts required to be maintained in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone as Primary Reserve absent any increase to account for 
additional reserves scheduled to address operational uncertainty.  The Primary Reserve 
Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The requirement can be 
satisfied by any combination of Synchronized Reserve or Non-Synchronized Reserve resources. 
 
Principal: 
 
“Principal” shall mean (i) all natural persons who Control Corporate Level Strategy for the 
Participant, which shall include a chief executive officer, managing member (or equivalent 
positions regardless of title) and members of a board of directors or board of managers; (ii) the 
chief legal officer or general counsel (or equivalent position regardless of title); (iii) the natural 
person who Controls the financial affairs and investments of the Participant, which shall include 
a chief financial officer (or equivalent position regardless of title); (iv) the natural person who 
Controls the Participant’s management of commodity and derivatives market risks, which shall 
include a chief risk officer (or equivalent position regardless of title); (v) the natural person who 
Controls the Participant’s transactions in the applicable PJM Markets (regardless of title); and 
(vi) all Beneficial Owners.  
 
“Control,” as that term is used in this definition, refers to possession of the power to direct the 
management or policies of an entity. 
 
“Corporate Level Strategy,” as that term is used in this definition, refers to the highest-level 
strategy of an entity, focused on the entity’s overall direction rather than the day-to-day 
operations of the entity. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 13 
“Beneficial Owner,” as that term is used in this definition, means a natural person who, directly 
or indirectly, alone or together with such person’s Family Members, owns, controls, or holds 
with power to vote 10 percent or more of the outstanding securities of the Participant.  
 
“Family Member,” as that term is used in this definition of “Beneficial Owner,” means a spouse, 
domestic partner, parent, child, or sibling.  
 
For purposes of trusts with, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the outstanding 
securities of the Participant as described above, the following are Beneficial Owners: (a) a 
natural person trustee; (b) a natural person with the authority to dispose of the trust assets; (c) a 
natural person grantor or settlor who has the right to revoke the trust or otherwise withdraw the 
assets of the trust; and (d) a natural person beneficiary who is the sole permissible recipient of 
income and principal from the trust or has the right to demand a distribution of or withdraw 
substantially all of the assets from the trust. 
 
If, due to the Participant’s business enterprise, structure or otherwise, a function described in 
clauses (i) through (v) above is performed by a natural person or entity separate from the 
Participant (such as a risk management department in an affiliate, or a director or manager at an 
entity that controls or invests in the Participant), then for that Participant the term Principal shall 
mean that natural person, or the senior officer or manager of that entity, that performs such 
function. 
 
Prior CIL Exception External Resource: 
 
“Prior CIL Exception External Resource” shall mean an external Generation Capacity Resource 
for which (1) a Capacity Market Seller had, prior to May 9, 2017, cleared a Sell Offer in an RPM 
Auction under the exception provided to the definition of Capacity Import Limit as set forth in 
RAA, Article I or (2) an FRR Entity committed, prior to May 9, 2017, in an FRR Capacity Plan 
under the exception provided in the definition of Capacity Import Limit.  In the event only a 
portion (in MW) of an external Generation Capacity Resource has a Pseudo-Tie into the PJM 
Region, that portion of the external Generation Capacity Resource, which can include up to the 
maximum megawatt amount cleared in any prior RPM auction or committed in an FRR Capacity 
Plan (and no other portion thereof) is eligible for treatment as a Prior CIL Exception External 
Resource if such portion satisfies the requirements of the first sentence of this definition. 
 
Project Financing: 
 
“Project Financing” shall mean:  (a) one or more loans, leases, equity and/or debt financings, 
together with all modifications, renewals, supplements, substitutions and replacements thereof, 
the proceeds of which are used to finance or refinance the costs of the Customer Facility, any 
alteration, expansion or improvement to the Customer Facility, the purchase and sale of the 
Customer Facility or the operation of the Customer Facility; (b) a power purchase agreement 
pursuant to which Interconnection Customer’s obligations are secured by a mortgage or other 
lien on the Customer Facility; or (c) loans and/or debt issues secured by the Customer Facility. 
 
Project Finance Entity: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 14 
 
“Project Finance Entity” shall mean:  (a) a holder, trustee or agent for holders, of any component 
of Project Financing; or (b) any purchaser of capacity and/or energy produced by the Customer 
Facility to which Interconnection Customer has granted a mortgage or other lien as security for 
some or all of Interconnection Customer’s obligations under the corresponding power purchase 
agreement. 
 
Projected EAS Dispatch: 
 
“Projected EAS Dispatch” shall mean, for purposes of calculating the Net Energy and Ancillary 
Services Revenue Offset, a simulated dispatch with the objective of committing and dispatching 
a resource for the purpose of maximizing its net revenues. The calculation shall take inputs 
including Forward Hourly LMPs, Forward Hourly Ancillary Service Prices, and Forward Daily 
Natural Gas Prices or forecasted fuel prices, as applicable, in addition to the operating 
parameters and costs of the specific resource, including the cost emission allowances. Using 
operating parameters, forward or forecasted fuel prices, as applicable and other cost pricing 
inputs, a composite, cost-based energy offer is created for the resource such that its commitment 
and dispatch is co-optimized between energy and ancillary services in the Day-Ahead Energy 
Market and then the Real-Time Energy Market considering the electricity and ancillary service 
price inputs. In the Real-Time Energy Market co-optimization, the resource is assumed to be 
operating in the hours it was scheduled in the Day-Ahead Energy Market but is dispatched 
according to the real-time price inputs. In the hours where the resource was not committed in the 
Day-Ahead Market, the resource may be committed and dispatched in real-time only subject to 
the real-time electricity and ancillary service price inputs and the resource’s offer and operating 
parameters.  For combustion turbine units only, the cost-based energy offer will include a 10 
percent adder only for the 2022/2023 Delivery Year. 
 
Projected PJM Market Revenues: 
 
“Projected PJM Market Revenues” shall mean a component of the Market Seller Offer Cap 
calculated in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6. 
 
Proportional Multi-Driver Project: 
 
“Proportional Multi-Driver Project” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating 
Agreement. 
 
Provisional Interconnection Service: 
 
“Provisional Interconnection Service” shall mean interconnection service provided by 
Transmission Provider associated with interconnecting the Interconnection Customer’s Generating 
Facility to Transmission Provider’s Transmission System and enabling that Transmission System 
to receive electric energy and capacity from the Generating Facility at the Point of Interconnection, 
pursuant to the terms of the Interconnection Service Agreement and, if applicable, the Tariff. 
 
Pseudo-Tie: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - O - P - Q 
Effective Date: 3/31/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1095-000 - Page 15 
 
“Pseudo-Tie” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Public Policy Objectives: 
 
“Public Policy Objectives” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Public Policy Requirements: 
 
“Public Policy Requirements” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating 
Agreement. 
 
Qualifying Transmission Upgrade: 
 
“Qualifying Transmission Upgrade” shall mean a proposed enhancement or addition to the 
Transmission System that: (a) will increase the Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit into an LDA 
by a megawatt quantity certified by the Office of the Interconnection; (b) the Office of the 
Interconnection has determined will be in service on or before the commencement of the first 
Delivery Year for which such upgrade is the subject of a Sell Offer in the Base Residual 
Auction; (c) is the subject of a Facilities Study Agreement executed before the conduct of the 
Base Residual Auction for such Delivery Year and (d) a New Service Customer is obligated to 
fund through a rate or charge specific to such facility or upgrade. 
 
Queue Position: 
 
“Queue Position” shall mean the priority assigned to an Interconnection Request, a Completed 
Application, or an Upgrade Request pursuant to applicable provisions of Tariff, Part VI. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 1 
Definitions – R - S 
 
Ramping Capability: 
 
“Ramping Capability” shall mean the sustained rate of change of generator output, in megawatts 
per minute. 
 
Real-time Congestion Price: 
 
“Real-time Congestion Price” shall mean the Congestion Price resulting from the Office of the 
Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Loss Price: 
 
“Real-time Loss Price” shall mean the Loss Price resulting from the Office of the 
Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Energy Market: 
 
“Real-time Energy Market” shall mean the purchase or sale of energy and payment of 
Transmission Congestion Charges for quantity deviations from the Day-ahead Energy Market in 
the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Offer: 
 
“Real-time Offer” shall mean a new offer or an update to a Market Seller’s existing cost-based or 
market-based offer for a clock hour, submitted for use after the close of the Day-ahead Energy 
Market. 
 
Real-time Prices: 
 
“Real-time Prices” shall mean the Locational Marginal Prices resulting from the Office of the 
Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Real-time Settlement Interval: 
 
“Real-time Settlement Interval” shall mean the interval used by settlements, which shall be every 
five minutes. 
 
Real-time System Energy Price: 
 
“Real-time System Energy Price” shall mean the System Energy Price resulting from the Office 
of the Interconnection’s dispatch of the PJM Interchange Energy Market in the Operating Day. 
 
Reasonable Efforts: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 2 
“Reasonable Efforts” shall mean, with respect to any action required to be made, attempted, or 
taken by an Interconnection Party or by a Construction Party under Tariff, Part IV or Part VI, an 
Interconnection Service Agreement, or a Construction Service Agreement, such efforts as are 
timely and consistent with Good Utility Practice and with efforts that such party would undertake 
for the protection of its own interests. 
 
Receiving Party: 
 
“Receiving Party” shall mean the entity receiving the capacity and energy transmitted by the 
Transmission Provider to Point(s) of Delivery. 
 
Referral: 
 
“Referral” shall mean a formal report of the Market Monitoring Unit to the Commission for 
investigation of behavior of a Market Participant, of behavior of PJM, or of a market design 
flaw, pursuant to Tariff, Attachment M, section IV.I. 
 
Reference Resource: 
 
“Reference Resource” shall mean a combustion turbine generating station, configured with a 
single General Electric Frame 7HA turbine with evaporative cooling, Selective Catalytic 
Reduction technology all CONE Areas, dual fuel capability, and a heat rate of 9.134 Mmbtu/ 
MWh.  
 
Regional Entity: 
 
“Regional Entity” shall have the same meaning specified in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan: 
 
“Regional Transmission Expansion Plan” shall mean the plan prepared by the Office of the 
Interconnection pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6 for the enhancement and 
expansion of the Transmission System in order to meet the demands for firm transmission 
service in the PJM Region. 
 
Regional Transmission Group (RTG): 
 
“Regional Transmission Group” or “RTG” shall mean a voluntary organization of transmission 
owners, transmission users and other entities approved by the Commission to efficiently 
coordinate transmission planning (and expansion), operation and use on a regional (and 
interregional) basis. 
 
Regulation: 
 
“Regulation” shall mean the capability of a specific generation resource or Demand Resource 
with appropriate telecommunications, control and response capability to separately increase and 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 3 
decrease its output or adjust load in response to a regulating control signal, in accordance with 
the specifications in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Regulation Zone: 
 
“Regulation Zone” shall mean any of those one or more geographic areas, each consisting of a 
combination of one or more Control Zone(s) as designated by the Office of the Interconnection 
in the PJM Manuals, relevant to provision of, and requirements for, regulation service. 
 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority: 
 
“Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority” shall mean an entity that has jurisdiction over 
and establishes prices and policies for competition for providers of retail electric service to end-
customers, such as the city council for a municipal utility, the governing board of a cooperative 
utility, the state public utility commission or any other such entity. 
 
Reliability Assurance Agreement or PJM Reliability Assurance Agreement: 
 
“Reliability Assurance Agreement” or “PJM Reliability Assurance Agreement” shall mean that 
certain Reliability Assurance Agreement Among Load Serving Entities in the PJM Region, on 
file with FERC as PJM Interconnection L.L.C. Rate Schedule FERC No. 44, and as amended 
from time to time thereafter. 
 
Reliability Pricing Model Auction: 
 
“Reliability Pricing Model Auction” or “RPM Auction” shall mean the Base Residual Auction or 
any Incremental Auction, or, for the 2016/2017 and 2017/2018 Delivery Years, any Capacity 
Performance Transition Incremental Auction. 
 
Required Transmission Enhancements: 
 
“Regional Transmission Enhancements” shall mean enhancements and expansions of the 
Transmission System that (1) a Regional Transmission Expansion Plan developed pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 6 or (2) any joint planning or coordination agreement between 
PJM and another region or transmission planning authority set forth in Tariff, Schedule 12-
Appendix B (“Appendix B Agreement”) designates one or more of the Transmission Owner(s) to 
construct and own or finance.  Required Transmission Enhancements shall also include 
enhancements and expansions of facilities in another region or planning authority that meet the 
definition of transmission facilities pursuant to FERC’s Uniform System of Accounts or have 
been classified as transmission facilities in a ruling by FERC addressing such facilities 
constructed pursuant to an Appendix B Agreement cost responsibility for which has been 
assigned at least in part to PJM pursuant to such Appendix B Agreement.  
 
Reserved Capacity: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 4 
“Reserved Capacity” shall mean the maximum amount of capacity and energy that the 
Transmission Provider agrees to transmit for the Transmission Customer over the Transmission 
Provider’s Transmission System between the Point(s) of Receipt and the Point(s) of Delivery 
under Tariff, Part II.  Reserved Capacity shall be expressed in terms of whole megawatts on a 
sixty (60) minute interval (commencing on the clock hour) basis. 
 
Reserve Penalty Factor: 
 
“Reserve Penalty Factor” shall mean the cost, in $/MWh, associated with being unable to meet a 
specific reserve requirement in a Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone.  A Reserve Penalty Factor 
will be defined for each reserve requirement in a Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone. 
 
Reserve Sub-zone: 
 
“Reserve Sub-zone” shall mean any of those geographic areas wholly contained within a Reserve 
Zone, consisting of a combination of a portion of one or more Control Zone(s) as designated by 
the Office of the Interconnection in the PJM Manuals, relevant to provision of, and requirements 
for, reserve service. 
 
Reserve Zone: 
 
“Reserve Zone” shall mean any of those geographic areas consisting of a combination of one or 
more Control Zone(s), as designated by the Office of the Interconnection in the PJM Manuals, 
relevant to provision of, and requirements for, reserve service. 
 
Residual Auction Revenue Rights: 
 
“Residual Auction Revenue Rights” shall mean incremental stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights 
created within a Planning Period by an increase in transmission system capability, including the 
return to service of existing transmission capability, that was not modeled pursuant to Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.5 and the parallel provisions of  Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 7.5 in compliance with Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.2 (h) 
and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4.2(h), and, if modeled, 
would have increased the amount of stage 1 Auction Revenue Rights allocated pursuant to 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.2 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 7.4.2; provided that, the foregoing notwithstanding, Residual Auction 
Revenue Rights shall exclude: 1) Incremental Auction Revenue Rights allocated pursuant to 
Tariff, Part VI;  and 2) Auction Revenue Rights allocated to entities that are assigned cost 
responsibility pursuant to Operating Agreement, Schedule 6 for  transmission upgrades that 
create such rights. 
 
Residual Metered Load: 
 
“Residual Metered Load” shall mean all load remaining in an electric distribution company’s 
fully metered franchise area(s) or service territory(ies) after all nodally priced load of entities 
serving load in such area(s) or territory(ies) has been carved out. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 5 
 
Resource Substitution Charge: 
 
“Resource Substitution Charge” shall mean a charge assessed on Capacity Market Buyers in an 
Incremental Auction to recover the cost of replacement Capacity Resources. 
 
Revenue Data for Settlements: 
 
“Revenue Data for Settlements” shall mean energy quantities used in accounting and billing as 
determined pursuant to Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix and the corresponding provisions of 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1. 
 
RPM Seller Credit: 
  
“RPM Seller Credit” shall mean an additional form of Unsecured Credit defined in Tariff, 
Attachment Q, section IV. 
 
Scheduled Incremental Auctions: 
 
“Scheduled Incremental Auctions” shall refer to the First, Second, or Third Incremental Auction. 
 
Schedule of Work: 
 
“Schedule of Work” shall mean that schedule attached to the Interconnection Construction 
Service Agreement setting forth the timing of work to be performed by the Constructing Entity 
pursuant to the Interconnection Construction Service Agreement, based upon the Facilities Study 
and subject to modification, as required, in accordance with Transmission Provider’s scope 
change process for interconnection projects set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Scope of Work: 
 
“Scope of Work” shall mean that scope of the work attached as a schedule to the Interconnection 
Construction Service Agreement and to be performed by the Constructing Entity(ies) pursuant to 
the Interconnection Construction Service Agreement, provided that such Scope of Work may be 
modified, as required, in accordance with Transmission Provider’s scope change process for 
interconnection projects set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
 
Seasonal Capacity Performance Resource: 
 
“Seasonal Capacity Performance Resource” shall have the same meaning specified in Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.5A. 
 
Seasonal Facility Rating: 
 
“Seasonal Facility Rating” shall mean a Transmission Facility Rating that:   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 6 
(a) Applies to a specified season, where seasons are defined by the Office of the Interconnection 
to include not fewer than four seasons in each year, and to reasonably reflect portions of the year 
where expected high temperatures are relatively consistent. 
 
(b) Reflects an up-to-date forecast of ambient air temperature across the relevant season over 
which the rating applies. 
 
(c) Is evaluated annually, if not more frequently, for each season in the future for which 
Transmission Service can be requested 
 
Secondary Reserve:  
 
“Secondary Reserve” shall mean the reserve capability of generation resources that can be 
converted fully into energy or Economic Load Response Participant resources whose demand can 
be reduced within 30 minutes (less the capability of such resources to provide Primary Reserve), 
from the request of the Office of the Interconnection, regardless of whether the equipment 
providing the reserve is electrically synchronized to the Transmission System or not. 
 
Secondary Systems: 
 
“Secondary Systems” shall mean control or power circuits that operate below 600 volts, AC or 
DC, including, but not limited to, any hardware, control or protective devices, cables, conductors, 
electric raceways, secondary equipment panels, transducers, batteries, chargers, and voltage and 
current transformers. 
 
Second Incremental Auction: 
 
“Second Incremental Auction” shall mean an Incremental Auction conducted ten months before 
the Delivery Year to which it relates.   
 
Security: 
 
“Security” shall mean the security provided by the New Service Customer pursuant to Tariff, 
section 212.4 or Tariff, Part VI, section 213.4 to secure the New Service Customer’s responsibility 
for Costs under the Interconnection Service Agreement or Upgrade Construction Service 
Agreement and Tariff, Part VI, section 217.  
 
Segment:  
“Segment” shall have the same meaning as described in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, 
section 3.2.3(e). 
 
Self-Supply: 
 
“Self-Supply” shall mean Capacity Resources secured by a Load-Serving Entity, by ownership 
or contract, outside a Reliability Pricing Model Auction, and used to meet obligations under this 
Attachment or the Reliability Assurance Agreement through submission in a Base Residual 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 7 
Auction or an Incremental Auction of a Sell Offer indicating such Market Seller’s intent that 
such Capacity Resource be Self-Supply.  Self-Supply may be either committed regardless of 
clearing price or submitted as a Sell Offer with a price bid. A Load Serving Entity's Sell Offer 
with a price bid for an owned or contracted Capacity Resource shall not be deemed “Self-
Supply,” unless it is designated as Self-Supply and used by the LSE to meet obligations under 
this Attachment or the Reliability Assurance Agreement. 
 
Self-Supply Entity: 
 
“Self-Supply Entity” shall mean the following types of Load Serving Entity that operate under 
long-standing business models: single customer entity, public power entity, or vertically 
integrated utility, where “vertically integrated utility” means a utility that owns generation, 
includes such generation in its regulated rates, and earns a regulated return on its investment in 
such generation or receives any cost recovery for such generation through bilateral contracts; 
“single customer entity”  means a Load Serving Entity that serves at retail only customers that 
are under common control with such Load Serving Entity, where such control means holding 
51% or more of the voting securities or voting interests of the Load Serving Entity and all its 
retail customers; and “public power entity” means cooperative and municipal utilities, including 
public power supply entities comprised of either or both of the same and rural electric 
cooperatives, and joint action agencies. 
 
Self-Supply Seller: 
 
“Self-Supply Seller” shall mean, for purposes of evaluating Buyer-Side Market Power, the 
following types of Load Serving Entities that operate under long-standing business models: 
vertically integrated utility or public power entity, where “vertically integrated utility” means a 
utility that owns generation, includes such generation in its state-regulated rates, and earns a 
state-regulated return on its investment in such generation; and “public power entity” means 
electric cooperatives that are either rate regulated by the state or have their long-term resource 
plan approved or otherwise reviewed and accepted by a Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory 
Authority and municipal utilities or joint action agencies that are subject to direct regulation by a 
Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority. 
 
Sell Offer: 
 
“Sell Offer” shall mean an offer to sell Capacity Resources in a Base Residual Auction, 
Incremental Auction, or Reliability Backstop Auction. 
 
Service Agreement: 
 
“Service Agreement” shall mean the initial agreement and any amendments or supplements thereto 
entered into by the Transmission Customer and the Transmission Provider for service under the 
Tariff. 
 
Service Commencement Date: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 8 
“Service Commencement Date” shall mean the date the Transmission Provider begins to provide 
service pursuant to the terms of an executed Service Agreement, or the date the Transmission 
Provider begins to provide service in accordance with Tariff, Part II, section 15.3 or Tariff, Part 
III, section 29.1. 
 
Short-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service: 
 
“Short-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service” shall mean Firm Point-To-Point 
Transmission Service under Tariff, Part II with a term of less than one year. 
 
Short-term Project: 
 
“Short-term Project” shall have the same meaning provided in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Short-Term Resource Procurement Target: 
 
“Short-Term Resource Procurement Target” shall mean, for Delivery Years through May 31, 
2018, as to the PJM Region, for purposes of the Base Residual Auction, 2.5% of the PJM Region 
Reliability Requirement determined for such Base Residual Auction,  for purposes of the First 
Incremental Auction, 2% of the of the PJM Region Reliability Requirement as calculated at the 
time of the Base Residual Auction; and, for purposes of the Second Incremental Auction, 1.5% 
of the of the PJM Region Reliability Requirement as calculated at the time of the Base Residual 
Auction; and, as to any Zone, an allocation of the PJM Region Short-Term Resource 
Procurement Target based on the Preliminary Zonal Forecast Peak Load, reduced by the amount 
of load served under the FRR Alternative.  For any LDA, the LDA Short-Term Resource 
Procurement Target shall be the sum of the Short-Term Resource Procurement Targets of all 
Zones in the LDA. 
 
Short-Term Resource Procurement Target Applicable Share: 
 
“Short-Term Resource Procurement Target Applicable Share” shall mean, for Delivery Years 
through May 31, 2018: (i) for the PJM Region, as to the First and Second Incremental Auctions, 
0.2 times the Short-Term Resource Procurement Target used in the Base Residual Auction and, 
as to the Third Incremental Auction for the PJM Region, 0.6 times such target; and (ii) for an 
LDA, as to the First and Second Incremental Auctions, 0.2 times the Short-Term Resource 
Procurement Target used in the Base Residual Auction for such LDA and, as to the Third 
Incremental Auction, 0.6 times such target.  
 
Site: 
 
“Site” shall mean all of the real property, including but not limited to any leased real property and 
easements, on which the Customer Facility is situated and/or on which the Customer 
Interconnection Facilities are to be located. 
 
Small Commercial Customer: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 9 
“Small Commercial Customer,” as used in RAA, Schedule 6 and Tariff, Attachment DD-1, shall 
mean a commercial retail electric end-use customer of an electric distribution company that 
participates in a mass market demand response program under the jurisdiction of a RERRA and 
satisfies the definition of a “small commercial customer” under the terms of the applicable 
RERRA’s program, provided that the customer has an annual peak demand no greater than 
100kW. 
 
Small Generation Resource: 
 
“Small Generation Resource” shall mean an Interconnection Customer’s device of 20 MW or less 
for the production and/or storage for later injection of electricity identified in an Interconnection 
Request, but shall not include the Interconnection Customer’s Interconnection Facilities.  This 
term shall include Energy Storage Resources and/or other devices for storage for later injection of 
energy. 
 
Small Inverter Facility: 
 
“Small Inverter Facility” shall mean an Energy Resource that is a certified small inverter-based 
facility no larger than 10 kW. 
 
Small Inverter ISA: 
 
“Small Inverter ISA” shall mean an agreement among Transmission Provider, Interconnection 
Customer, and Interconnected Transmission Owner regarding interconnection of a Small Inverter 
Facility under Tariff, Part IV, section 112B. 
 
Special Member: 
 
 “Special Member” shall mean an entity that satisfies the requirements of Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 1.5A.02, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 1.5A.02, or the special membership provisions established under the Emergency Load 
Response and Pre-Emergency Load Response Programs. 
 
Spot Market Backup: 
 
“Spot Market Backup” shall mean the purchase of energy from, or the delivery of energy to, the 
PJM Interchange Energy Market in quantities sufficient to complete the delivery or receipt 
obligations of a bilateral contract that has been curtailed or interrupted for any reason. 
 
Spot Market Energy: 
 
“Spot Market Energy” shall mean energy bought or sold by Market Participants through the PJM 
Interchange Energy Market at System Energy Prices determined as specified in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 2. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 10 
Start Additional Labor Costs: 
 
“Start Additional Labor Costs” shall mean additional labor costs for startup required above 
normal station manning levels.  
 
Start Fuel: 
 
For units without a soak process, “Start Fuel” shall consist of fuel consumed from first fire of the 
start process to first breaker closing, plus any fuel expended from last breaker opening to 
shutdown. 
 
For units with a soak process, “Start Fuel” is fuel consumed from first fire of the start process 
(initial reactor criticality for nuclear units) to dispatchable output (including auxiliary boiler 
fuel), plus any fuel expended from last breaker opening to shutdown, excluding normal plant 
heating/auxiliary equipment fuel requirements.  Start Fuel included for each temperature state 
from breaker closure to dispatchable output shall not exceed the unit specific soak time period 
reviewed and approved as part of the unit-specific parameter process detailed in Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 6.6(c) or the defaults below: 
• Cold Soak Time = 0.73 * unit specific Minimum Run Time (in hours) 
• Intermediate Soak Time = 0.61 * unit specific Minimum Run Time (in hours) 
• Hot Soak Time = 0.43 * unit specific Minimum Run Time (in hours)   
 
Start-Up Costs: 
 
“Start-Up Costs” shall consist primarily of the cost of fuel, as determined by the unit’s start heat 
input (adjusted by the performance factor) times the fuel cost.  It also includes operating costs, 
Maintenance Adders, emissions allowances/adders, and station service cost.  Start-Up Costs can 
vary with the unit offline time being categorized in three unit temperature conditions: hot, 
intermediate and cold. 
 
For units with a steam turbine and a soak process (nuclear, steam, and combined cycle), “Start 
Fuel” is fuel consumed from first fire of start process (initial reactor criticality for nuclear units): 
Start-Up Costs shall mean the net unit costs from PJM’s notification to the level at which the unit 
can follow PJM’s dispatch, and from last breaker open to shutdown. 
 
For units without a steam turbine and no soak process (engines, combustion turbines, Intermittent 
Resources, and Energy Storage Resources): Start-Up Costs shall mean the unit costs from PJM’s 
notification to first breaker close and from last breaker open to shutdown.   
 
State: 
 
“State” shall mean the District of Columbia and any State or Commonwealth of the United States. 
 
State Commission: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 11 
“State Commission” shall mean any state regulatory agency having jurisdiction over retail 
electricity sales in any State in the PJM Region. 
 
State Estimator: 
 
“State Estimator” shall mean the computer model of power flows specified in Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2.3 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-
Appendix, section 2.3. 
 
State Subsidy: 
 
“State Subsidy” shall mean a direct or indirect payment, concession, rebate, subsidy, non-
bypassable consumer charge, or other financial benefit that is as a result of any action, mandated 
process, or sponsored process of a state government, a political subdivision or agency of a state, 
or an electric cooperative formed pursuant to state law, and that  
(1) is derived from or connected to the procurement of (a) electricity or electric generation 
capacity sold at wholesale in interstate commerce, or (b) an attribute of the generation 
process for electricity or electric generation capacity sold at wholesale in interstate 
commerce; or 
(2) will support the construction, development, or operation of a new or existing Capacity 
Resource; or  
(3) could have the effect of allowing the unit to clear in any PJM capacity auction.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, State Subsidy shall not include (a) payments, concessions, 
rebates, subsidies, or incentives designed to incent, or participation in a program, contract or 
other arrangement that utilizes criteria designed to incent or promote, general industrial 
development in an area or designed to incent siting facilities in that county or locality rather than 
another county or locality; (b) state action that imposes a tax or assesses a charge utilizing the 
parameters of a regional program on a given set of resources notwithstanding the tax or cost 
having indirect benefits on resources not subject to the tax or cost (e.g., Regional Greenhouse 
Gas Initiative); (c) any indirect benefits to a Capacity Resource as a result of any transmission 
project approved as part of the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan; (d) any contract, legally 
enforceable obligation, or rate pursuant to the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act or any other 
state-administered federal regulatory program (e.g., the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule); (e) any 
revenues from the sale or allocation, either direct or indirect, to an Entity Providing Supply 
Services to Default Retail Service Provider where such entity’s obligations was awarded through 
a state default procurement auction that was subject to independent oversight by a consultant or 
manager who certifies that the auction was conducted through a non-discriminatory and 
competitive bidding process, subject to the below condition, and provided further that nothing 
herein would exempt a Capacity Resource that would otherwise be subject to the minimum offer 
price rule pursuant to this Tariff; (f) any revenues for providing capacity as part of an FRR 
Capacity Plan or through bilateral transactions with FRR Entities; or (g) any voluntary and arm’s 
length bilateral transaction (including but not limited to those reported pursuant to Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 4.6), such as a power purchase agreement or other similar contract 
where the buyer is a Self-Supply Entity and the transaction is (1) a short term transaction (one-
year or less) or (2) a long-term transaction that is the result of a competitive process that was not 
fuel-specific and is not used for the purpose of supporting uneconomic construction, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 12 
development, or operation of the subject Capacity Resource, provided however that if the Self-
Supply Entity is responsible for offering the Capacity Resource into an RPM Auction, the 
specified amount of installed capacity purchased by such Self-Supply Entity shall be considered 
to receive a State Subsidy in the same manner, under the same conditions, and to the same extent 
as any other Capacity Resource of a Self-Supply Entity.  For purposes of subsection (e) of this 
definition, a state default procurement auction that has been certified to be a result of a non-
discriminatory and competitive bidding process shall: 
(i) have no conditions based on the ownership (except supplier diversity 
requirements or limits), location (except to meet PJM deliverability 
requirements), affiliation, fuel type, technology, or emissions of any resources or 
supply (except state-mandated renewable portfolio standards for which Capacity 
Resources are separately subject to the minimum offer price rule or eligible for an 
exemption); 
(ii) result in contracts between an Entity Providing Supply Services to Default Retail 
Service Provider and the electric distribution company for a retail default 
generation supply product and none of those contracts require that the retail 
obligation be sourced from any specific Capacity Resource or resource type as set 
forth in subsection (i) above; and 
(iii) establish market-based compensation for a retail default generation supply 
product that retail customers can avoid paying for by obtaining supply from a 
competitive retail supplier of their choice. 
 
State of Charge: 
 
“State of Charge” shall mean the quantity of physical energy stored in an Energy Storage 
Resource Model Participant or in the storage component of a Hybrid Resource in proportion to 
its maximum State of Charge capability. State of Charge is quantified as defined in the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
State of Charge Management: 
 
“State of Charge Management” shall mean the control of State of Charge of an Energy Storage 
Resource Market Participant or Hybrid Resource using minimum and maximum discharge (and, 
as applicable, charge) limits, changes in operating mode (as applicable), discharging (and, as 
applicable, charging) offer curves, and self-scheduling of non-dispatchable sales (and, as 
applicable, purchases) of energy in the PJM markets.  State of Charge Management shall not 
interfere with the obligation of a Market Seller of an Energy Storage Resource Model Participant 
or of a Hybrid Resource to follow PJM dispatch, consistent with all other resources. 
 
Station Power: 
 
“Station Power” shall mean energy used for operating the electric equipment on the site of a 
generation facility located in the PJM Region or for the heating, lighting, air-conditioning and 
office equipment needs of buildings on the site of such a generation facility that are used in the 
operation, maintenance, or repair of the facility.  Station Power does not include any energy (i) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 13 
used to power synchronous condensers; (ii) used for pumping at a pumped storage facility; (iii) 
used in association with restoration or black start service; or (iv) that is Direct Charging Energy. 
 
Sub-Annual Resource Constraint: 
 
“Sub-Annual Resource Constraint” shall mean, for the 2017/2018 Delivery Year and for FRR 
Capacity Plans the 2017/2018 and 2018/2019 Delivery Years, for the PJM Region or for each 
LDA for which the Office of the Interconnection is required under Tariff, Attachment DD, 
section 5.10(a) to establish a separate VRR Curve for a Delivery Year, a limit on the total 
amount of Unforced Capacity that can be committed as Limited Demand Resources and 
Extended Summer Demand Resources for the 2017/2018 Delivery Year in the PJM Region or in 
such LDA, calculated as the Sub-Annual Resource Reliability Target for the PJM Region or for 
such LDA, respectively, minus the Short-Term Resource Procurement Target for the PJM 
Region or for such LDA, respectively.  
 
Sub-Annual Resource Price Decrement: 
 
“Sub-Annual Resource Price Decrement” shall mean, for the 2017/2018 Delivery Year, a 
difference between the clearing price for Extended Summer Demand Resources and the clearing 
price for Annual Resources, representing the cost to procure additional Annual Resources out of 
merit order when the Sub-Annual Resource Constraint is binding.  
 
Sub-Annual Resource Reliability Target:  
 
“Sub-Annual Reliability Target” for the PJM Region or an LDA, shall mean the maximum 
amount of the combination of Extended Summer Demand Resources and Limited Demand 
Resources in Unforced Capacity determined by PJM to be consistent with the maintenance of 
reliability, stated in Unforced Capacity, that shall be used to calculate the Minimum Annual 
Resource Requirement for Delivery Years through May 31, 2017 and the Sub-Annual Resource 
Constraint for the 2017/2018 and 2018/2019 Delivery Years.  As more fully set forth in the PJM 
Manuals, PJM calculates the Sub-Annual Resource Reliability Target, by first determining a 
reference annual loss of load expectation (“LOLE”) assuming no Demand Resources.  The 
calculation for the unconstrained portion of the PJM Region uses a daily distribution of loads 
under a range of weather scenarios (based on the most recent load forecast and iteratively 
shifting the load distributions to result in the Installed Reserve Margin established for the 
Delivery Year in question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative capacity 
availability distributions developed for the Installed Reserve Margin study for the Delivery Year 
in question).  The calculation for each relevant LDA uses a daily distribution of loads under a 
range of weather scenarios (based on the most recent load forecast for the Delivery Year in 
question) and a weekly capacity distribution (based on the cumulative capacity availability 
distributions developed for the Capacity Emergency Transfer Objective study for the Delivery 
Year in question).  For the relevant LDA calculation, the weekly capacity distributions are 
adjusted to reflect the Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit for the Delivery Year in question. 
 
For both the PJM Region and LDA analyses, PJM then models the commitment of varying 
amounts of DR (displacing otherwise committed generation) as interruptible from May 1 through 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 14 
October 31 and unavailable from November 1 through April 30 and calculates the LOLE at each 
DR level.  The Extended Summer DR Reliability Target is the DR amount, stated as a percentage 
of the unrestricted peak load, that produces no more than a ten percent increase in the LOLE, 
compared to the reference value.  The Sub-Annual Resource Reliability Target shall be 
expressed as a percentage of the forecasted peak load of the PJM Region or such LDA and is 
converted to Unforced Capacity by multiplying [the reliability target percentage] times [the 
Forecast Pool Requirement] times [the DR Factor] times [the forecasted peak load of the PJM 
Region or such LDA, reduced by the amount of load served under the FRR Alternative]. 
 
Sub-meter: 
 
“Sub-meter” shall mean a metering point for electricity consumption that does not include all 
electricity consumption for the end-use customer as defined by the electric distribution company 
account number.  PJM shall only accept sub-meter load data from end-use customers for 
measurement and verification of Regulation service as set forth in the Economic Load Response 
rules and PJM Manuals. 
 
Summer-Period Capacity Performance Resource: 
 
“Summer-Period Capacity Performance Resource” shall have the same meaning specified in 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.5A. 
 
Surplus Interconnection Customer: 
 
“Surplus Interconnection Customer” shall mean either an Interconnection Customer whose 
Generating Facility is already interconnected to the PJM Transmission System or one of its 
affiliates, or an unaffiliated entity that submits a Surplus Interconnection Request to utilize 
Surplus Interconnection Service within the Transmission System in the PJM Region.  A Surplus 
Interconnection Customer is not a New Service Customer.    
 
Surplus Interconnection Request: 
 
“Surplus Interconnection Request” shall mean a request submitted by a Surplus Interconnection 
Customer, pursuant to Tariff, Attachment RR, to utilize Surplus Interconnection Service within 
the Transmission System in the PJM Region.  A Surplus Interconnection Request is not a New 
Service Request. 
 
Surplus Interconnection Service: 
 
“Surplus Interconnection Service” shall mean any unneeded portion of Interconnection Service 
established in an Interconnection Service Agreement, such that if Surplus Interconnection Service 
is utilized, the total amount of Interconnection Service at the Point of Interconnection would 
remain the same. 
 
Switching and Tagging Rules: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 15 
“Switching and Tagging Rules” shall mean the switching and tagging procedures of 
Interconnected Transmission Owners and Interconnection Customer as they may be amended 
from time to time.  
 
Synchronized Reserve: 
 
“Synchronized Reserve” shall mean the reserve capability of generation resources that can be 
converted fully into energy or Economic Load Response Participant resources whose demand 
can be reduced within ten minutes from the request of the Office of the Interconnection 
dispatcher, and is provided by equipment that is electrically synchronized to the Transmission 
System. 
 
Synchronized Reserve Event: 
 
“Synchronized Reserve Event” shall mean a request from the Office of the Interconnection to 
generation resources and/or Economic Load Response Participant resources able, assigned or 
self-scheduled to provide Synchronized Reserve in one or more specified Reserve Zones or 
Reserve Sub-zones, within ten minutes, to increase the energy output or reduce load by the 
amount of assigned or self-scheduled Synchronized Reserve capability. 
 
Synchronized Reserve Requirement: 
 
“Synchronized Reserve Requirement” shall mean the megawatts required to be maintained in a 
Reserve Zone or Reserve Sub-zone as Synchronized Reserve, absent any increase to account for 
additional reserves scheduled to address operational uncertainty.  The Synchronized Reserve 
Requirement is calculated in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  This requirement can only be 
satisfied by Synchronized Reserve resources. 
 
System Condition: 
 
“System Condition” shall mean a specified condition on the Transmission Provider’s system or on 
a neighboring system, such as a constrained transmission element or flowgate, that may trigger 
Curtailment of Long-Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service using the curtailment 
priority pursuant to Tariff, Part II, section 13.6.  Such conditions must be identified in the 
Transmission Customer’s Service Agreement. 
 
System Energy Price: 
 
“System Energy Price” shall mean the energy component of the Locational Marginal Price, 
which is the price at which the Market Seller has offered to supply an additional increment of 
energy from a resource, calculated as specified in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 2 
and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 2. 
 
System Impact Study: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - R - S 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 16 
“System Impact Study” shall mean an assessment by the Transmission Provider of (i) the adequacy 
of the Transmission System to accommodate a Completed Application, an Interconnection 
Request or an Upgrade Request, (ii) whether any additional costs may be incurred in order to 
provide such transmission service or to accommodate an Interconnection Request, and (iii) with 
respect to an Interconnection Request, an estimated date that an Interconnection Customer’s 
Customer Facility can be interconnected with the Transmission System and an estimate of the 
Interconnection Customer’s cost responsibility for the interconnection; and (iv) with respect to an 
Upgrade Request, the estimated cost of the requested system upgrades or expansion, or of the cost 
of the system upgrades or expansion, necessary to provide the requested incremental rights. 
 
System Protection Facilities: 
 
“System Protection Facilities” shall refer to the equipment required to protect (i) the Transmission 
System, other delivery systems and/or other generating systems connected to the Transmission 
System from faults or other electrical disturbance occurring at or on the Customer Facility, and (ii) 
the Customer Facility from faults or other electrical system disturbance occurring on the 
Transmission System or on other delivery systems and/or other generating systems to which the 
Transmission System is directly or indirectly connected.  System Protection Facilities shall include 
such protective and regulating devices as are identified in the Applicable Technical Requirements 
and Standards or that are required by Applicable Laws and Regulations or other Applicable 
Standards, or as are otherwise necessary to protect personnel and equipment and to minimize 
deleterious effects to the Transmission System arising from the Customer Facility. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 1 
Definitions – T – U - V 
 
Tangible Net Worth: 
 
“Tangible Net Worth” shall mean total assets less goodwill and other intangible assets, minus 
total liabilities.   
 
Target Allocation: 
 
“Target Allocation” shall mean the allocation of Transmission Congestion Credits as set forth in 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2.3, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 5.2.3, or the allocation of Auction Revenue Rights Credits as 
set forth in Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 7.4.3, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, 
Attachment K-Appendix, section 7.4.3. 
 
Third Incremental Auction: 
 
“Third Incremental Auction” shall mean an Incremental Auction conducted three months before 
the Delivery Year to which it relates. 
 
Third-Party Sale: 
 
“Third-Party Sale” shall mean any sale for resale in interstate commerce to a Power Purchaser 
that is not designated as part of Network Load under the Network Integration Transmission 
Service but not including a sale of energy through the PJM Interchange Energy Market 
established under the PJM Operating Agreement. 
 
Tie Line: 
 
“Tie Line” shall mean a circuit connecting two balancing authority areas, Control Areas or fully 
metered electric system regions. Tie Lines may be classified as external or internal as set forth in 
the PJM Manuals. 
 
Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer:   
 
“Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer” shall mean the applicable offer used to calculate lost 
opportunity cost credits.  For pool-scheduled resources specified in PJM Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 1, section 3.2.3(f-1), and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, 
section 3.2.3(f-1), the Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer shall equal the Real-time Settlement 
Interval offer integrated under the applicable offer curve for the LOC Deviation, as determined by 
the greater of the Committed Offer or last Real-Time Offer submitted for the offer on which the 
resource was committed in the Day-ahead Energy Market for each hour in an Operating Day.  For 
all other pool-scheduled resources, the Total Lost Opportunity Cost Offer shall equal the Real-
time Settlement Interval offer integrated under the applicable offer curve for the LOC Deviation, 
as determined by the offer curve associated with the greater of the Committed Offer or Final Offer 
for each hour in an Operating Day.   For self-scheduled generation resources, the Total Lost 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 2 
Opportunity Cost Offer shall equal the Real-time Settlement Interval offer integrated under the 
applicable offer curve for the LOC Deviation, where for self-scheduled generation resources (a) 
operating pursuant to a cost-based offer, the applicable offer curve shall be the greater of the 
originally submitted cost-based offer or the cost-based offer that the resource was dispatched on 
in real-time; or (b) operating pursuant to a market-based offer, the applicable offer curve shall be 
determined in accordance with the following process: (1) select the greater of the cost-based day-
ahead offer and updated cost-based Real-time Offer; (2) for resources with multiple cost-based 
offers, first, for each cost-based offer select the greater of the day-ahead offer and updated Real-
time Offer, and then select the lesser of the resulting cost-based offers; and (3) compare the offer 
selected in (1), or for resources with multiple cost-based offers the offer selected in (2), with the 
market-based day-ahead offer and the market-based Real-time Offer and select the highest offer. 
 
Total Net Obligation: 
  
“Total Net Obligation” shall mean all unpaid billed Net Obligations plus any unbilled Net 
Obligation incurred to date, as determined by PJMSettlement on a daily basis, plus any other 
Obligations owed to PJMSettlement at the time. 
 
Total Net Sell Position: 
 
“Total Net Sell Position” shall mean all unpaid billed Net Sell Positions plus any unbilled Net 
Sell Positions accrued to date, as determined by PJMSettlement on a daily basis. 
 
Total Operating Reserve Offer:   
 
“Total Operating Reserve Offer” shall mean the applicable offer used to calculate Operating 
Reserve credits.  The Total Operating Reserve Offer shall equal the sum of all individual Real-
time Settlement Interval energy offers, inclusive of Start-Up Costs (shut-down costs for Demand 
Resources) and No-load Costs, for every Real-time Settlement Interval in a Segment, integrated 
under the applicable offer curve up to the applicable megawatt output as further described in the 
PJM Manuals.  The applicable offer used to calculate day-ahead Operating Reserve credits shall 
be the Committed Offer, and the applicable offer used to calculate balancing Operating Reserve 
credits shall be lesser of the Committed Offer or Final Offer for each hour in an Operating Day. 
 
Trade Reference:  
 
“Trade Reference” shall mean a reference from a contact or firm that had or has a material 
business relationship with a Participant. 
 
Transmission Congestion Charge: 
 
“Transmission Congestion Charge” shall mean a charge attributable to the increased cost of 
energy delivered at a given load bus when the transmission system serving that load bus is 
operating under constrained conditions, or as necessary to provide energy for third-party 
transmission losses which shall be calculated and allocated as specified in Operating Agreement, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 3 
Schedule 1, section 5.1 and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix, section 
5.1. 
 
Transmission Congestion Credit: 
 
“Transmission Congestion Credit” shall mean the allocated share of total Transmission 
Congestion Charges credited to each FTR Holder, calculated and allocated as specified in 
Operating Agreement, Schedule 1, section 5.2, and the parallel provisions of Tariff, Attachment 
K-Appendix, section 5.2. 
 
Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor: 
 
“Transmission Constraint Penalty Factor” shall mean the maximum cost of the re-dispatch 
incurred to control the flows across a transmission constraint and establishes the maximum limit 
on the Marginal Value. 
 
Transmission Customer: 
 
“Transmission Customer” shall mean any Eligible Customer (or its Designated Agent) that (i) 
executes a Service Agreement, or (ii) requests in writing that the Transmission Provider file with 
the Commission a proposed unexecuted Service Agreement, to receive transmission service 
under Tariff, Part II.  This term is used in Tariff, Part I and Tariff, Part VI to include customers 
receiving transmission service under Tariff, Part II and Tariff, Part III. 
 
Where used in Tariff, Attachment K-Appendix and the parallel provisions of Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 1, Transmission Customer shall mean an entity using Point-to-Point 
Transmission Service. 
 
Transmission Facilities: 
 
“Transmission Facilities” shall have the meaning set forth in the Operating Agreement. 
 
Transmission Facility Rating: 
 
“Transmission Facility Rating” shall mean the maximum transfer capability, or the maximum or 
minimum voltage, current, frequency, or real or reactive power flow, through a Transmission 
Facility that does not violate the applicable rating of relevant transmission equipment.  
Transmission Facility Ratings are computed in accordance with a written Transmission Facility 
Rating methodology and consistent with Good Utility Practice, considering the technical 
limitations on conductors and relevant transmission equipment (such as thermal flow limits).  
Relevant transmission equipment may include, but is not limited to, circuit breakers, line traps, 
and transformers.  Transmission Facility Ratings also encompass AARs, AAR Exceptions, and 
Temporary Conditional Transmission Facility Ratings. 
 
 
Transmission Forced Outage: 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT I. COMMON SERVICE PROVISIONS --> OATT 1. 
Definitions --> OATT Definitions - T - U - V 
Effective Date: 3/4/2026 - Docket #: ER22-2359-004 - Page 4 
 
“Transmission Forced Outage” shall mean an immediate removal from service of a transmission 
facility by reason of an Emergency or threatened Emergency, unanticipated failure, or other 