[SCHEDULE 5 - Part 1 of 10]

Schedule 5. 
 
b. To the extent that an election of the Buyer Customer under Tariff, Part 
VII, Subpart E, sections 324(B)(2)(b) and 324(B)(3) to terminate 
participation in any Network Upgrade or Distribution Upgrade is 
consistent with Transmission Provider’s determination, Transmission 
Provider shall confirm Buyer’s termination election and shall recalculate 
accordingly the Buyer Customer’s cost responsibility under Tariff, Part 
VII, Subpart D, section 307(A)(5), as applicable. Transmission Provider 
shall provide its confirmation, along with any recalculation of cost 
responsibility, under this section in writing to the Buyer Customer within 
30 days after receipt of notice of the Buyer Customer’s election to 
terminate participation.  
 
5. Effect of Election on Interconnection Request 
 
In the event that the Buyer Customer, pursuant to a confirmed election under this 
section 324(B), terminates its participation in any Network Upgrade or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 324 IDR Transfer Agreement 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 4 
Distribution Upgrade and the Interconnection Request underlying the Incremental 
Deliverability Rights acquired by the Buyer Customer under its IDR Transfer 
Agreement subsequently is terminated and withdrawn, or deemed to be so, then 
the Buyer Customer’s New Service Request also shall be deemed to be 
concurrently terminated and withdrawn. 
 
6. Effect on Interconnection Studies 
 
Each IDR Transfer Agreement shall be deemed to be a New Service Request and 
shall be queued, and shall be reflected as appropriate in subsequent System 
Impact Studies, with other New Service Requests received under the Tariff. The 
Buyer Customer shall be the Project Developer for purposes of application of the 
provisions of Tariff, Part VII, including, in the event that Transmission Provider 
determines that further analysis of the relevant IDRs is necessary, provisions 
relating to responsibility for the costs of Interconnection Studies. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 325 Regional Transmission Expansion Plan 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 325 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan 
 
A. Any Interconnection Facilities, Direct Assignment Facilities, Distribution Upgrades, or 
Network Upgrades constructed to accommodate a New Service Request or an Affected 
System facility shall be included in the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan upon their 
identification in an interconnection-related agreement in the form set forth in Tariff, Part 
IX.  For purposes of this Part VII, Subpart E, section 325, an Affected System facility is a 
facility, that in the event that interconnection of a new or expanded generation or 
transmission facility with an Affected System, requires Distribution Upgrades or 
Network Upgrades to the Transmission Provider’s Transmission System. 
 
B. In the event that termination of a New Service Customer’s participation in a previously 
identified Network Upgrade or Distribution Upgrade pursuant to Tariff, Part VII, Subpart 
E, section 324, eliminates the need for such upgrade, Transmission Provider shall offer 
all New Service Customers whose New Service Requests preceded the IDR Transfer 
Agreement that facilitated such termination an opportunity to pursue and pay for (in 
whole or in part) such upgrade.  
 
C. Transmission Provider shall remove from the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan any 
Network Upgrade or Distribution Upgrade in the event that the need for such upgrade is 
eliminated due to termination of a New Service Customer’s participation in such upgrade 
and other New Service Customers do not pursue and pay for the upgrade pursuant to 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 325(B). 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 326 Transmission Owner Construction Oblig. 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 326 
Transmission Owner Construction Obligation for Necessary Facilities and Upgrades 
 
A. Construction Obligation 
 
The determination of the Transmission Owners’ obligations to build the necessary 
facilities and upgrades to accommodate New Service Requests, or interconnections with 
Affected Systems in accordance with Tariff, Part VII, Subpart G, section 336, shall be 
made in the same manner as such responsibilities are determined under Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 6.  Except to the extent otherwise provided in a Generation 
Interconnection Agreement or Construction Service Agreement entered into pursuant to 
this Tariff, Part VII, the Transmission Owners shall own all Interconnection Facilities and 
Network Upgrades constructed to accommodate New Service Requests. 
 
B. Alternative Facilities and Upgrades 
 
Upon completion of the studies of a New Service Request or Upgrade Request prescribed 
in the Tariff, the Transmission Provider shall recommend the necessary facilities and 
upgrades to accommodate the New Service Request or Upgrade Request, and the 
Transmission Owner’s construction obligation to build such facilities and upgrades.  The 
Transmission Owner(s), or the Project Developer, Eligible Customer or Upgrade 
Customer, may offer alternatives to the Transmission Provider’s recommendation.  If, 
based upon its review of the relative costs and benefits, the ability of the alternative(s) to 
accommodate the New Service Request or Upgrade Request, and the alternative’s(s’) 
impact on the reliability of the Transmission System, the Transmission Provider does not 
adopt such alternative(s), the Transmission Owner(s), or the Project Developer, Eligible 
Customer, or Upgrade Customer, may require that the alternative(s) be submitted to 
Dispute Resolution in accordance with Tariff, Part I, section 12 or, if concerning the 
Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, consistent with Operating Agreement, Schedule 
5.  The affected Project Developer, Eligible Customer, Upgrade Customer may 
participate in any such Dispute Resolution process. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 327 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 327 
Confidentiality 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 327, all information 
provided to Transmission Provider by Project Developers, Eligible Customers, or Upgrade 
Customers relating to any study of a New Service Request or Upgrade Request, required under 
the Tariff shall be deemed Confidential Information under Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 
327(A).  Upon completion of each study, the study will be listed on Transmission Provider’s 
website and, to the extent required by Commission regulations, will be made publicly available 
upon request.  To the extent that Transmission Provider contracts with consultants or with one or 
more Transmission Owner(s) for services or expertise in the preparation of any of the studies 
required under the Tariff, the consultants and/or Transmission Owner(s) shall keep all 
information provided by Project Developers confidential, and shall use such information solely 
for the purpose of the study for which it was provided and for no other purpose. 
 
A. Confidential Information 
 
For purposes of this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 327(A), the term “party” refers to 
Project Developer, Eligible Customer, Upgrade Customer, Transmission Provider, or a 
Transmission Owner, as applicable, and the term “parties” refers to all such entities 
collectively, or to any two or more of them, as the context indicates.  Information is 
Confidential Information only if it is clearly designated or marked in writing as 
confidential on the face of the document, or, if the information is conveyed orally or by 
inspection, if the party providing the information orally informs the party receiving the 
information that the information is confidential.  If requested by any party, the disclosing 
party shall provide in writing the basis for asserting that the information referred to in this 
section warrants confidential treatment, and the requesting party may disclose such 
writing to an appropriate Governmental Authority.  Any party shall be responsible for the 
costs associated with affording confidential treatment to its information. 
 
1. Term 
 
During the longest of the terms of (as and to the extent applicable) 
interconnection-related service agreement set forth in Tariff, Part IX and for a 
period of three years after the expiration or termination thereof, and except as 
otherwise provided in this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 327(A), each party 
shall hold in confidence, and shall not disclose to any person, Confidential 
Information provided to it by any other party. 
 
2. Scope 
 
Confidential Information shall not include information that the receiving party can 
demonstrate: (i) is generally available to the public other than as a result of a 
disclosure by the receiving party; (ii) was in the lawful possession of the receiving 
party on a non-confidential basis before receiving it from the disclosing party; (iii) 
was supplied to the receiving party without restriction by a third party, who, to the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 327 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
knowledge of the receiving party, after due inquiry, was under no obligation to 
the disclosing party to keep such information confidential; (iv) was independently 
developed by the receiving party without reference to Confidential Information of 
the disclosing party; (v) is, or becomes, publicly known, through no wrongful act 
or omission of the receiving party or breach of the requirements of this Tariff, 
Part VII, Subpart E, section 327(A); or (vi) is required, in accordance with Tariff, 
Part VII, Subpart E, section 327(A)(7) below, to be disclosed to any 
Governmental Authority or is otherwise required to be disclosed by law or 
subpoena, or is necessary in any legal proceeding establishing rights and 
obligations under the Tariff or any agreement entered into pursuant thereto.  
Information designated as Confidential Information shall no longer be deemed 
confidential if the party that designated the information as confidential notifies the 
other parties that it no longer is confidential. 
 
3. Release of Confidential Information 
 
No party shall disclose Confidential Information to any other person, except to its 
Affiliates (limited by the Commission's Standards of Conduct requirements), 
subcontractors, employees, consultants or to parties who may be, or may be 
considering, providing financing to or equity participation in Project Developer, 
Eligible Customer, or Upgrade Customer, or to potential purchasers or assignees 
of Project Developer, Eligible Customer, or Upgrade Customer, on a need-to-
know basis in connection with the interconnected-related service agreement, 
unless such person has first been advised of the confidentiality provisions of this 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 327(A)and has agreed to comply with such 
provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a party providing Confidential 
Information to any person shall remain primarily responsible for any release of 
Confidential Information in contravention of this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, 
section 327(A). 
 
4. Rights  
 
Each party retains all rights, title, and interest in the Confidential Information that 
it discloses to any other party.  A party’s disclosure to another party of 
Confidential Information shall not be deemed a waiver by any party or any other 
person or entity of the right to protect the Confidential Information from public 
disclosure. 
 
5. No Warranties  
 
By providing Confidential Information, no party makes any warranties or 
representations as to its accuracy or completeness.  In addition, by supplying 
Confidential Information, no party obligates itself to provide any particular 
information or Confidential Information to any other party nor to enter into any 
further agreements or proceed with any other relationship or joint venture. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 327 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
6. Standard of Care  
 
Each party shall use at least the same standard of care to protect Confidential 
Information it receives as the party uses to protect its own Confidential 
Information from unauthorized disclosure, publication or dissemination.  Each 
party may use Confidential Information solely to fulfill its obligations to the other 
parties under this Tariff, Part VII or any agreement entered into pursuant to this 
Tariff, Part VII. 
 
7. Order of Disclosure  
 
If a Governmental Authority with the right, power, and apparent authority to do 
so requests or requires a party, by subpoena, oral deposition, interrogatories, 
requests for production of documents, administrative order, or otherwise, to 
disclose Confidential Information, that party shall provide the party that provided 
the information with prompt prior notice of such request(s) or requirement(s) so 
that the providing party may seek an appropriate protective order or waive 
compliance with the terms of this Tariff, Part VII or any applicable agreement 
entered into pursuant to this Tariff, Part VII.  Notwithstanding the absence of a 
protective order or agreement, or waiver, the party that is subjected to the request 
or order may disclose such Confidential Information which, in the opinion of its 
counsel, the party is legally compelled to disclose.  Each party shall use 
Reasonable Efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be 
accorded any Confidential Information so furnished. 
 
8. Termination of Agreement(s)  
 
Upon termination of any agreement entered into pursuant to this Tariff, Part VII 
for any reason, each party shall, within 10 calendar days of receipt of a written 
request from another party, use Reasonable Efforts to destroy, erase, or delete 
(with such destruction, erasure, and deletion certified in writing to the requesting 
party) or to return to the other party, without retaining copies thereof, any and all 
written or electronic Confidential Information received from the requesting 
party. 
 
9. Disclosure to FERC or its Staff 
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 327(A) to the 
contrary, and pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 1b.20, if FERC or its staff, during the course 
of an investigation or otherwise, requests information from one of the parties that 
is otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to this Tariff, Part 
VII or any agreement entered into pursuant to this Tariff, Part VII, the party 
receiving such request shall provide the requested information to FERC or its staff 
within the time provided for in the request for information. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 327 Confidentiality 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 4 
In providing the information to FERC or its staff, the party must, consistent with 
18 C.F.R. § 388.112, request that the information be treated as confidential and 
non-public by FERC and its staff and that the information be withheld from 
public disclosure.  Parties are prohibited from notifying the other parties prior to 
the release of the Confidential Information to the Commission or its staff.  A party 
shall notify the other party(ies) to any agreement entered into pursuant to this 
Tariff, Part VII when it is notified by FERC or its staff that a request to release 
Confidential Information has been received by FERC, at which time any of the 
parties may respond before such information would be made public, pursuant to 
18 C.F.R. § 388.112. 
 
10. Other Disclosures  
 
Subject to the exception in Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 327(A)(9), no party 
shall disclose Confidential Information of another party to any person not 
employed or retained by the disclosing party, except to the extent disclosure is (i) 
required by law; (ii) reasonably deemed by the disclosing party to be required in 
connection with a dispute between or among the parties, or the defense of 
litigation or dispute; (iii) otherwise permitted by consent of the party that 
provided such Confidential Information, such consent not to be unreasonably 
withheld; or (iv) necessary to fulfill its obligations under this Tariff, Part VII or 
any agreement entered into pursuant to this Tariff, Part VII, or as a transmission 
service provider or a Control Area operator including disclosing the Confidential 
Information to an RTO or ISO or to a regional or national reliability organization.  
Prior to any disclosures of another party’s Confidential Information under this 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 327(A)(10), the disclosing party shall 
promptly notify the other parties in writing and shall assert confidentiality and 
cooperate with the other parties in seeking to protect the Confidential Information 
from public disclosure by confidentiality agreement, protective order, or other 
reasonable measures. 
 
11. Information in Public Domain  
 
This confidentiality provision shall not apply to any information that was or is 
hereafter in the public domain, except as a result of a breach of this confidentiality 
provision. 
 
12. Return or Destruction of Confidential Information 
 
If a party provides any Confidential Information to another party in the course of 
an audit or inspection, the providing party may request the other party to return or 
destroy such Confidential Information after the termination of the audit period 
and the resolution of all matters relating to that audit.  Each party shall make 
Reasonable Efforts to comply with any such requests for return or destruction 
within 10 days of receiving the request and shall certify in writing to the other 
party that it has complied with such request. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 328 Capacity Interconnection Rights 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 328 
Capacity Interconnection Rights 
 
A. Purpose 
 
Capacity Interconnection Rights shall entitle the holder to deliver the output of a 
Generation Capacity Resource at the bus where the Generation Capacity Resource 
interconnects to the Transmission System.  The Transmission Provider shall plan the 
enhancement and expansion of the Transmission System in accordance with Operating 
Agreement, Schedule 6 such that the holder of Capacity Interconnection Rights can 
integrate its Capacity Resources in a manner comparable to that in which each 
Transmission Owner integrates its Capacity Resources to serve its Native Load 
Customers. 
 
B. Receipt of Capacity Interconnection Rights 
 
Generation accredited under the Reliability Assurance Agreement Among Load Serving 
Entities in the PJM Region (“RAA”) as a Generation Capacity Resource prior to the 
original effective date of Tariff, Part IV shall have Capacity Interconnection Rights 
commensurate with the size in megawatts of the accredited generation.  When a 
Generation Project Developer’s generation is accredited as deliverable through the 
applicable procedures of the Tariff, the Generation Project Developer also shall receive 
Capacity Interconnection Rights commensurate with the size in megawatts of the 
generation as identified in the Generation Interconnection Agreement.  Pursuant to the 
applicable terms of RAA, Schedule 10, a Transmission Project Developer may combine 
Incremental Deliverability Rights associated with Merchant Transmission Facilities with 
generation capacity that is not otherwise accredited as a Generation Capacity Resource 
for the purposes of obtaining accreditation of such generation as a Generation Capacity 
Resource and associated Capacity Interconnection Rights. 
 
C. Loss of Capacity Interconnection Rights 
 
1. Operational Standards 
 
To retain Capacity Interconnection Rights, the Generation Capacity Resource 
associated with the rights must operate or be capable of operating at the capacity 
level associated with the rights.  Operational capability shall be established 
consistent with RAA, Schedule 9 and the PJM Manuals.  Generation Capacity 
Resources that meet these operational standards shall retain their Capacity 
Interconnection Rights regardless of whether they are available as a Generation 
Capacity Resource or are making sales outside the PJM Region. 
 
2. Failure to Meet Operational Standards 
 
This Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 328 shall apply only in circumstances 
other than Deactivation of a Generation Capacity Resource.  In the event a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 328 Capacity Interconnection Rights 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
Generation Capacity Resource fails to meet the operational standards set forth in 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 328(C)(1) for any consecutive three-year 
period (with the first such period commencing on the date Generation Project 
Developer must demonstrate commercial operation of the generating unit(s) as 
specified in the Generation Interconnection Agreement), the holder of the 
Capacity Interconnection Rights associated with such Generation Capacity 
Resource will lose its Capacity Interconnection Rights in an amount 
commensurate with the loss of generating capability.  Any period during which 
the Generation Capacity Resource fails to meet the standards set forth in Tariff, 
Part VII, Subpart E, section 328(C)(1)  as a result of an event that meets the 
standards of a Force Majeure event as defined in Tariff, Part I, section 1 shall be 
excluded from such consecutive three-year period, provided that the holder of the 
Capacity Interconnection Rights exercises due diligence to remedy the event.  A 
Generation Capacity Resource that loses Capacity Interconnection Rights 
pursuant to this section may continue Interconnection Service, to the extent of 
such lost rights, as an Energy Resource in accordance with (and for the remaining 
term of) its Generation Interconnection Agreement and/or applicable terms of the 
Tariff. 
 
3. Replacement of Generation  
 
In the event of the Deactivation of a Generation Capacity Resource (in accordance 
with Tariff, Part V and any Applicable Standards), or removal of Capacity 
Resource status (in accordance with Tariff, Attachment DD, section 6.6 or Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 6.6A), any Capacity Interconnection Rights associated 
with such Generating Facility shall terminate one year from the Deactivation 
Date, or one year from the date the Capacity Resource status change takes effect, 
unless the holder of such rights (including any holder that acquired the rights after 
Deactivation or removal of Capacity Resource status) has submitted a completed 
Generation Interconnection Request up to one year after the Deactivation Date, or 
up to one year from the date the Capacity Resource status changes take effect, 
which claims the same Capacity Interconnection Rights in accordance with Tariff, 
Part VII, Subpart C, section 306(D).  A Generation Project Developer must 
submit any claim for Capacity Interconnection Rights from deactivating units 
concurrently with its Application for Interconnection Service, and the claim must 
be received by Transmission Provider prior to the Application Deadline, or 
Transmission Provider will not process the claim.  Such new Generation 
Interconnection Request may include a request to increase Capacity 
Interconnection Rights in addition to the replacement of the previously 
deactivated amount, or amount removed from Capacity Resource status, as a 
single Generation Interconnection Request.  Transmission Provider may perform 
thermal, short circuit, and/or stability studies, as necessary and in accordance with 
the PJM Manuals, due to any changes in the electrical characteristics of any newly 
proposed equipment, or where there is a change in Point of Interconnection, 
which may result in the loss of a portion or all of the Capacity Interconnection 
Rights as determined by such studies. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 328 Capacity Interconnection Rights 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
 
Upon execution of a Generation Interconnection Agreement reflecting its new 
Generation Interconnection Request, the holder of the Capacity Interconnection 
Rights will retain only such rights that are commensurate with the size in 
megawatts of the replacement generation, not to exceed the amount of the 
holder’s Capacity Interconnection Rights associated with the facility upon 
Deactivation or removal of Capacity Resource status.  Any desired increase in 
Capacity Interconnection Rights must be reflected in the new Generation 
Interconnection Request and be accredited through the applicable procedures in 
Tariff, Part IV and Tariff, Part VI.  In the event the new Generation 
Interconnection Request to which this section refers is, or is deemed to be, 
terminated and/or withdrawn for any reason at any time, the pertinent Capacity 
Interconnection Rights shall not terminate until the end of the one-year period 
from the Deactivation Date, or the end of the one year period from the date the 
Capacity Resource status change takes effect. 
 
4. Transfer of Capacity Interconnection Rights 
 
Capacity Interconnection Rights may be sold or otherwise transferred subject to 
compliance with such procedures as may be established by Transmission Provider 
regarding such transfer and notice to Transmission Provider of any Generating 
Facilities that will use the Capacity Interconnection Rights after the transfer.  The 
transfer of Capacity Interconnection Rights shall not itself extend the periods set 
forth in Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 328(C) regarding loss of Capacity 
Interconnection Rights. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 329 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 329 
Incremental Rights 
 
A. Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
 
1. Right of Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer to Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights 
 
A Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer that (a) pursuant to this 
Tariff, Part VII reimburses Transmission Provider for the costs of constructing or 
completing Network Upgrades required to accommodate its New Service Request 
or Upgrade Request, or (b) pursuant to its Construction Service Agreement 
undertakes responsibility for constructing or completing Network Upgrades 
required to accommodate its New Service Request or Upgrade Request, shall be 
entitled to receive the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights as determined in 
accordance with this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 329(A).  However, a 
Transmission Project Developer that interconnects Merchant D.C. Transmission 
Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities with the 
Transmission System shall be entitled to Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
associated with such Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable 
A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities only if the Transmission Project 
Developer has elected, pursuant to Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 330 to 
receive Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, Incremental Capacity Transfer 
Rights, and Incremental Deliverability Rights in lieu of Transmission Injection 
Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights. 
 
2. Procedures for Assigning Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
 
No less than 45 days prior to the in-service date, as determined by the Office of 
the Interconnection, of the applicable transmission facility or upgrade related to a 
New Service Request or Upgrade Request, the Office of the Interconnection shall 
notify the Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer that has 
responsibility to reimburse the costs of, or responsibility for, constructing or 
completing the transmission facility or upgrade, that initial requests for 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights associated with the transmission facility or 
upgrade must be submitted to the Office of the Interconnection within a time 
period specified by the Office of the Interconnection in the notification.  The 
Office of the Interconnection then shall commence a three-round allocation 
process.  In round one, one-third of the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
available for each point-to-point combination requested in that round will be 
assigned to the requesters of the specific combinations in accordance with Tariff, 
Part VII, Subpart E, section 329(A)(3). 
 
In round two, two-thirds of the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights available for 
each requested point-to-point combination in that round will be assigned in 
accordance with Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 329(A)(3).  In round three, all 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 329 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 2 
available Incremental Auction Revenue Rights will be assigned for the requested 
point-to-point combinations in that round in accordance with Tariff, Part VII, 
Subpart E, section 329(A)(3).  In each round, a requester may request the same 
point-to-point combination as in the previous rounds or submit a different 
combination.  In rounds one and two, requesters may accept the assignment of 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights or refuse them.  Acceptance of the 
assignment in rounds one and two will remove the assigned Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights from availability in the next rounds.  Refusal of an Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights assignment in rounds one and two will result in the 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights being available for the next round.  The 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights assignments made in round three will be 
final and binding.  The final and binding Incremental Auction Revenue Right  
assignment for a requested point-to-point combination in each  round shall in no 
event be less than one third of 80% and no  greater than one-third of 100% of the 
non-binding estimate of  Incremental Auction Revenue Rights for that point-to-
point  combination that was provided to the Transmission Project  Developer or 
Upgrade Customer. For each round, a request for Incremental Auction Revenue 
Rights shall specify a single point-to-point combination for which the 
Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer desires Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights and shall be in a form specified by the Office of the 
Interconnection and in accordance with procedures set forth in the PJM Manuals.  
The Office of the Interconnection shall specify the deadlines for submission of 
requests in each round of the allocation process and shall complete the allocation 
process before the in-service date of the upgrade. 
 
3. Determination of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights to be Provided to 
Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall determine the Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights to be provided to a Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade 
Customer associated with a particular transmission facility or upgrade pursuant to 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 329(A)(2) using the tools described in Tariff, 
Attachment K, including an assessment of the simultaneous feasibility of any 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights and all other outstanding Auction Revenue 
Rights.  For each requested point-to-point combination, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall determine, simultaneously with all other requested point-to-
point combinations, the base system Auction Revenue Rights capability, 
excluding the impact of any new transmission facilities or upgrades necessary to 
accommodate New Service Requests or Upgrade Requests.  The Office of the 
Interconnection then shall similarly determine, for each requested point-to-point 
combination, the Auction Revenue Rights capability, including the impact of any 
new transmission facilities or upgrades.  For each point-to-point combination, the 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights capability shall be the difference between 
the Auction Revenue Rights capability in the base system analysis and the 
Auction Revenue Rights capability in the analysis including the impact of the new 
transmission facilities and upgrades.  When multiple Transmission Project 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 329 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 3 
Developers or Upgrade Customers have cost responsibility for the same new 
transmission facility or upgrade, Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall be 
assigned to each Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer in 
proportion to the Transmission Project Developer’s or Upgrade Customer’s 
relative cost responsibilities for the facility and in inverse proportion to the 
relative flow impact on constrained facilities or interfaces of the point-to-point 
combinations selected by the Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade 
Customer. 
 
4. Duration of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights received by a Transmission Project 
Developer or Upgrade Customer pursuant to this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, 
section 329(A) shall be available as of the first day of the first month that the 
Network Upgrades required to accommodate its New Service Request or Upgrade 
Request that are associated with the Incremental Auction Revenue Rights are 
included in the transmission system model for the monthly FTR auction and shall 
continue to be available for 30 years or for the life of the associated facility or 
upgrade, whichever is less, subject to any subsequent pro-rata reductions of all 
Auction Revenue Rights (including Incremental Auction Revenue Rights) in 
accordance with Tariff, Attachment K - Appendix.  At any time during this 30-
year period (or the life of the facility or upgrade, whichever is less), in lieu of 
continuing this 30-year Auction Revenue Right, the Transmission Project 
Developer or Upgrade Customer shall have a one-time choice to switch to an 
optional mechanism, whereby, on an annual basis, the Transmission Project 
Developer or Upgrade Customer has the choice to request an Auction Revenue 
Right during the annual Auction Revenue Rights allocation process (pursuant to 
Tariff, Attachment K – Appendix, section 7.4.2) between the same source and 
sink, provided the Auction Revenue Right is simultaneously feasible, pursuant to 
Tariff, Attachment K – Appendix, section 7.5.  A Transmission Project Developer 
or Upgrade Customer may return Incremental Auction Revenue Rights that it no 
longer desires at any time, provided that the Office of the Interconnection 
determines that it can simultaneously accommodate all remaining outstanding 
Auction Revenue Rights following the return of such Auction Revenue Rights.  In 
the event a Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer returns 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, the Transmission Project Developer or 
Upgrade Customer shall have no further rights regarding such Incremental 
Auction Revenue Rights. 
 
5. Value of Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
 
The value of Incremental Auction Revenue Right(s) to be provided to a 
Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer associated with a particular 
transmission facility or upgrade pursuant to Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 
329(A)(2) that become effective at the beginning of a Planning Period shall be 
determined in the same manner as annually allocated Auction Revenue Right(s) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 329 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 4 
based on the nodal prices resulting from the annual Financial Transmission Rights 
auction.  The value of such Incremental Auction Revenue Rights that become 
effective after the commencement of a Planning Period shall be determined on a 
monthly basis for each month in the Planning Period beginning with the month 
the Incremental Auction Revenue Right(s) becomes effective.  The value of such 
Incremental Auction Revenue Right shall be equal to the megawatt amount of the 
Incremental Auction Revenue Rights multiplied by the LMP differential between 
the source and sink nodes of the corresponding FTR obligations in each prompt-
month FTR auction that occurs from the effective date of the Incremental Auction 
Revenue Rights through the end of the relevant Planning Period.  For each 
Planning Period thereafter, the value of such Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
shall be determined in the same manner as Incremental Auction Revenue Rights 
that became effective at the beginning of a Planning Period. 
 
6. Rate-based Facilities 
 
No Incremental Auction Revenue Rights shall be received by a Transmission 
Project Developer, Eligible Customer, or Upgrade Customer with respect to 
transmission investment that is included in the rate base of a public utility and on 
which a regulated return is earned. 
 
B. Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights 
 
1. Right of Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer to Incremental 
Capacity Transfer Rights 
 
A Transmission Project Developer that interconnects Merchant Transmission 
Facilities with the Transmission System shall be entitled to receive any 
Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights that are associated with the interconnection 
of such Merchant Transmission Facilities as determined in accordance with this 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 329(B).  In addition, an Upgrade Customer 
that (a) reimburses Transmission Provider for the costs of constructing or 
completing Customer-Funded Upgrades, or (b) pursuant to its Construction 
Service Agreement undertakes responsibility for constructing or completing 
Customer-Funded Upgrades shall be entitled to receive any Incremental Capacity 
Transfer Rights associated with such required facilities and upgrades as 
determined in accordance with this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 329(B). 
 
a. Certain Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities 
  
A Transmission Project Developer (a) that interconnects Merchant D.C. 
transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities with the Transmission System, one terminus of which is located 
outside the PJM Region and the other terminus of which is located within 
the PJM Region, and (b) that will be a Merchant Transmission Provider, 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 329 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 5 
shall not receive any Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights with respect to 
its Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities.  Transmission Provider shall not 
include available transfer capability at the interface(s) associated with 
such Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities in its calculations of Available Transfer 
Capability under Tariff, Attachment C. 
 
2. Procedures for Assigning Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights 
 
After execution of a Study Agreement but prior to the issuance of an 
Interconnection Agreement or Upgrade Construction Service Agreement, a 
Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer may request the Office of 
the Interconnection to determine the Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights as 
measured by the increase in Capacity Emergency Transfer Limit resulting from 
the interconnection or addition of Merchant Transmission Facilities or a 
Customer-Funded Upgrade identified in the System Impact Study for the related 
New Service Request.  At the time of such request, the Transmission Project 
Developer or Upgrade Customer must also specify no more than three Locational 
Deliverability Areas in which to determine the Incremental Capacity Transfer 
Rights.  Subject to the limitation of Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 
329(B)(1)(a), the Office of the Interconnection shall allocate the Incremental 
Capacity Transfer Rights associated with Merchant Transmission Facilities to the 
Transmission Project Developer that is interconnecting such facilities.  The Office 
of the Interconnection shall allocate the Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights 
associated with a Customer-Funded Upgrade to the Upgrade Customer(s) bearing 
cost responsibility for such facility or upgrade in proportion to each Upgrade 
Customer’s cost responsibility for the facility or upgrade. 
 
3. Determination of Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights to be Provided to 
Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade Customer 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall determine the Incremental Capacity 
Transfer Rights to be provided to Transmission Project Developers or Upgrade 
Customers in accordance with the applicable terms of the Reliability Pricing 
Model, in Tariff, Attachment DD, and pursuant to the procedures specified in the 
PJM Manuals. 
 
4. Duration of Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights 
 
Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights received by a Transmission Project 
Developer or Upgrade Customer shall be effective for 30 years from, as 
applicable, commencement of Interconnection Service, Transmission Service, or 
Network Service for the affected Transmission Project Developer or Upgrade 
Customer or the life of the pertinent facility or upgrade, whichever is shorter, 
subject to any subsequent pro-rata reallocations of all Capacity Transfer Rights 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 329 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 6 
(including Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights) in accordance with the PJM 
Manuals. 
 
5. Rate-based Facilities 
 
No Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights shall be received by a Transmission 
Project Developer or Upgrade Customer with respect to transmission investment 
that is included in the rate base of a public utility and on which a regulated return 
is earned. 
 
C. Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 
1. Right of Transmission Interconnection Customer to Incremental Deliverability 
Rights 
 
A Transmission Project Developer shall be entitled to receive the Incremental 
Deliverability Rights associated with its Merchant Transmission Facilities as 
determined in accordance with this section, provided, however, that a 
Transmission Project Developer that proposes to interconnect Merchant D.C. 
Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities that connect the Transmission System with another control area shall be 
entitled to Incremental Deliverability Rights associated with such Merchant D.C. 
Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities only if the Interconnection Customer has elected, pursuant to Tariff, 
Part VII, Subpart E, section 330, to receive Incremental Auction Revenue Rights, 
Incremental Capacity Transfer Rights, and Incremental Deliverability Rights in 
lieu of Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights. 
 
2. Procedures for Assigning Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 
Transmission Provider shall include in the System Impact Study a determination 
of the Incremental Deliverability Rights associated with the Transmission Project 
Developer’s Merchant Transmission Facilities.  Transmission Provider shall post 
on its OASIS the Incremental Deliverability Rights that it assigns to the 
Transmission Project Developer under this section 329(C)(2). 
 
3. Determination of Incremental Deliverability Rights to be Provided to 
Transmission Project Developer 
 
Transmission Provider shall determine the Incremental Deliverability Rights to be 
provided to a Transmission Project Developer associated with proposed Merchant 
Transmission Facilities under Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 
329(C)(2)pursuant to procedures specified in the PJM Manuals. 
 
4. Duration of Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 329 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 7 
Incremental Deliverability Rights assigned to a Transmission Project Developer 
shall be effective until the earlier of the date that is one year after the 
commencement of Interconnection Service for such customer or the date that such 
Transmission Project Developer’s New Service Request is withdrawn and 
terminated, or deemed to be so, in accordance with the Tariff.  Notwithstanding 
the preceding sentence, Incremental Deliverability Rights that are transferred 
pursuant to an IDR Transfer Agreement under the Tariff shall be deemed to be 
Capacity Interconnection Rights of the generation owner that acquires them under 
such agreement upon commencement of Interconnection Service related to the 
generation owner’s Generating Facility and shall remain effective for the life of 
such Generating Facility, or for the life of the Merchant Transmission Facilities 
associated with the transferred IDRs, whichever is shorter.  The deemed 
conversion of IDRs to Capacity Interconnection Rights under this Tariff, Part VII, 
Subpart E, section 329(C)(4)shall not affect application to such IDRs of the other 
provisions of this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 329(C).  A Transmission 
Project Developer may return Incremental Deliverability Rights that it no longer 
desires at any time.  In the event that a Transmission Project developer returns 
Incremental Deliverability Rights, it shall have no further rights regarding such 
Incremental Deliverability Rights. 
 
5. Transfer of Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 
Incremental Deliverability Rights may be sold or otherwise transferred at any 
time after they are assigned pursuant to Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 
329(C)(2), subject to execution and submission of an IDR Transfer Agreement in 
accordance with the Tariff.  The transfer of Incremental Deliverability Rights 
shall not itself extend the periods set forth in Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 
329(C)(7) regarding loss of Incremental Deliverability Rights. 
 
6. Effectiveness of Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 
Incremental Deliverability Rights shall not entitle the holder thereof to use the 
capability associated with such rights unless and until Transmission Provider 
commences Interconnection Service related to the Merchant Transmission 
Facilities associated with such rights. 
 
7. Loss of Incremental Deliverability Rights 
 
Incremental Deliverability Rights shall be extinguished (a) in the event that the 
New Service Request of the Transmission Project Developer to which the rights 
were assigned is withdrawn and terminated, or deemed to be so, as provided in the 
Tariff, without regard for whether the rights have been transferred pursuant to an 
IDR Transfer Agreement, or (b) such rights are not transferred pursuant to an IDR 
Transfer Agreement on or before the date that is one year after the 
commencement of Interconnection Service related to the Merchant Transmission 
Facilities with which the rights are associated. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 329 Incremental Rights 
Effective Date: 8/28/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2398-000 - Page 8 
 
8. Rate-based Facilities 
 
No Incremental Deliverability Rights shall be received by a Transmission Project 
Developer with respect to transmission investment that is included in the rate base 
of a public utility and on which a regulated return is earned. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 330 Rights for Transmission Interconnections 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 330 
Rights for Transmission Interconnections 
 
A. Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights 
 
1. Purpose 
 
Transmission Injection Rights shall entitle the holder, as provided in this Tariff, 
Part VII, Subpart E, section 330, to schedule energy transmitted on the associated 
Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities for injection into the Transmission System, at a Point of 
Interconnection of the Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable 
A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities with the Transmission System.  
Transmission Withdrawal Rights shall entitle the holder, as provided in this 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 330, to schedule for transmission on the 
associated Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities energy to be withdrawn from the Transmission 
System, at a Point of Interconnection of the Merchant D.C. Transmission 
Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities with the 
Transmission System. 
 
2. Receipt of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights 
 
Subject to the terms of this section 330, a Transmission Project Developer that 
constructs Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities that interconnect with the Transmission System 
and with another control area outside the PJM Region shall be entitled to receive 
Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights at each 
terminal where such Transmission Project Developer’s Merchant D.C. 
Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities interconnect with the Transmission System.  A Transmission Project 
Developer that is granted Firm Transmission Withdrawal Rights and/or 
transmission service customers that have a Point of Delivery at the border of the 
PJM Region where the Transmission System interconnects with the Merchant 
D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities, may be responsible for a reasonable allocation of transmission upgrade 
costs added to the Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, in accordance with 
Tariff, Part I, section 3E and Tariff, Schedule 12.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
any Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights awarded 
to a Transmission Project Developer that interconnects Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities shall be, throughout the duration of the Service 
Agreement applicable to such interconnection, conditioned on such Transmission 
Project Developer’s continuous operation of its Controllable A.C. Merchant 
Transmission Facilities in a controllable manner, i.e., in a manner effectively the 
same as operation of D.C. transmission facilities. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 330 Rights for Transmission Interconnections 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
a. Total Capability 
 
A Transmission Project Developer or other party may hold Transmission 
Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights simultaneously at 
the same terminal on the Transmission System.  However, neither the 
aggregate Transmission Injection Rights nor the aggregate Transmission 
Withdrawal Rights held at a terminal may exceed the Nominal Rated 
Capability of the interconnected Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities 
and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities, as stated in the 
associated Service Agreement(s). 
 
3. Determination of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal 
Rights to be Provided to Transmission Project Developer 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall determine the Transmission Injection 
Rights and the Transmission Withdrawal Rights associated with Merchant D.C. 
Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission 
Facilities to be provided to eligible Transmission Project Developer(s) pursuant to 
the procedures specified in the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the Interconnection 
shall state in the System Impact Studies the Transmission Injection Rights and 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights (including the quantity of each type of such 
rights) to be made available to the Transmission Project Developer at the 
terminal(s) where the pertinent Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or 
Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities interconnect with the 
Transmission System.  Such rights shall become available to the Transmission 
Project Developer pursuant to the Interconnection Agreement and upon 
commencement of Interconnection Service thereunder. 
 
4. Duration of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights 
 
Subject to the terms of Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 330(A)(7), 
Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights received 
by a Transmission Project Developer shall be effective for the life of the 
associated Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. 
Merchant Transmission Facilities. 
 
5. Rate-based Facilities  
 
No Transmission Injection Rights or Transmission Withdrawal Rights shall be 
received by a Transmission Project Developer with respect to transmission 
investment that is included in the rate base of a public utility and on which a 
regulated return is earned. 
 
6. Transfer of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 330 Rights for Transmission Interconnections 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
Transmission Injection Rights and/or Transmission Withdrawal Rights may be 
sold or otherwise transferred subject to compliance with such procedures as 
Transmission Provider may establish, by publication in the PJM Manuals, 
regarding such transfer and required notice to Transmission Provider of use of 
such rights after the transfer.  The transfer of Transmission Injection Rights or of 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights shall not itself extend the periods set forth in 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 330(A)(7)regarding loss of such rights. 
 
7. Loss of Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal Rights 
 
a. Operational Standards 
 
To retain Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal 
Rights, the associated Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or 
Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities must operate or be 
capable of operating at the capacity level associated with the rights.  
Operational capability shall be established consistent with applicable 
criteria stated in the PJM Manuals.  Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities 
and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities that meet these 
operational standards shall retain their Transmission Injection Rights and 
Transmission Withdrawal Rights regardless of whether they are used to 
transmit energy within or to points outside the PJM Region. 
 
b. Failure to Meet Operational Standards 
 
In the event that any Merchant D.C. Transmission Facilities and/or 
Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities fail to meet the 
operational standards set forth in this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 
330(A)(7)for any consecutive three-year period, the holder(s) of the 
associated Transmission Injection Rights and Transmission Withdrawal 
Rights will lose such rights in an amount reflecting the loss of first 
contingency transfer capability.  Any period during which the transmission 
facility fails to meet the standards set forth in this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart 
E, section 330(A)(7)as a result of an event that meets the standards of a 
Force Majeure event shall be excluded from such consecutive three-year 
period, provided that the owner of the Merchant D.C. Transmission 
Facilities and/or Controllable A.C. Merchant Transmission Facilities 
exercises due diligence to remedy the event. 
 
B. Interconnection Rights for Certain Transmission Interconnections 
 
1. Qualification to Receive Certain Rights 
 
In order to obtain the rights associated with Merchant Transmission Facilities 
(other than Merchant Network Upgrades) provided under the Tariff, prior to the 
commencement of Interconnection Service associated with such facilities, a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 330 Rights for Transmission Interconnections 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 4 
Transmission Interconnection Customer that interconnects or adds Merchant 
Transmission Facilities (other than Merchant Network Upgrades) to the 
Transmission System must become and remain a signatory to the Consolidated 
Transmission Owners Agreement. 
 
2. Upgrades to Merchant Transmission Facilities 
 
In the event that Transmission Provider determines in accordance with the 
Regional Transmission Expansion Planning Protocol of Operating Agreement, 
Schedule 6 that an addition or upgrade to Merchant A.C. Transmission Facilities 
is necessary, the owner of such Merchant A.C. Transmission Facilities shall 
undertake such addition or upgrade and shall operate and maintain all facilities so 
constructed or installed in accordance with Good Utility Practice and with 
applicable terms of the Operating Agreement and the Consolidated Transmission 
Owners Agreement, as applicable.  Cost responsibility for each such addition or 
upgrade shall be assigned in accordance with Operating Agreement, Schedule 6.  
Each Transmission Owner to whom cost responsibility for such an upgrade is 
assigned shall further be responsible for all costs of operating and maintaining the 
addition or upgrade in proportion to its respective assigned cost responsibilities. 
 
3. Limited Duration of Rights in Certain Cases 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 
330, in the case of any Merchant Transmission Facilities that solely involves 
advancing the construction of a transmission enhancement or expansion other 
than a Merchant Transmission Facility that is included in the Regional 
Transmission Expansion Plan, any rights available to such facility under this 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 330 shall be limited in duration to the period 
from the inception of Interconnection Service for the affected Merchant 
Transmission Facilities until the time when the Regional Transmission Expansion 
Plan originally provided for the pertinent transmission enhancement or expansion 
to be completed. 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 331 Milestones 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 331 
Milestones 
 
A. In order to proceed with Generation Interconnection Agreement, within 60 days after 
receipt of the Phase III System Impact Study (or, if no Phase IIII System Impact Study 
was required, then after the results of either the Phase I or Phase II System Impact Study 
were provided on Transmission Provider’s website): 
 
1. Project Developer must demonstrate that it has: 
 
a.  entered a fuel delivery agreement and water agreement, if necessary, and 
that it controls any necessary rights-of-way for fuel and water 
interconnections; and 
 
b.  obtained any necessary local, county, and state site permits; and 
 
c.  signed a memorandum of understanding for the acquisition of major 
equipment; and 
 
d.  if applicable, obtained any necessary local, county, and state siting permits 
or other required approvals for the construction of its proposed Merchant 
D.C. Transmission Facilities or Merchant Controllable A.C. Transmission 
Facilities. 
 
B. The Transmission Provider may include any additional related milestone dates beyond 
those included in Tariff, Part IX, Subpart B in the Generation Interconnection Agreement 
for the construction of the project Developer’s generation project that, if not met, shall 
relieve the Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner(s) from the requirement 
to construct the necessary facilities and upgrades. 
 
1. If the milestone dates in the Generation Interconnection Agreement are not met, 
such Generation Interconnection Agreement may be deemed to be terminated and 
Transmission Provider may cancel such agreement with the Federal Energy 
Regulatory Commission, and the New Service Agreement may simultaneously be 
deemed to be terminated and withdrawn. 
 
2. Such milestones may include site acquisition, permitting, regulatory certifications 
(if required), acquisition of any necessary third-party financial commitments, 
commercial operation, and similar events.   
 
3. The Transmission Provider may reasonably extend any such milestone dates 
(including those required in order to proceed with an Generation Interconnection 
Agreement) in the event of delays not caused by the Project Developer, such as 
unforeseen regulatory or construction delays that could not be remedied by the 
Project Developer through the exercise of due diligence.   
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 331 Milestones 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
4. The Generation Interconnection Agreement set forth in Tariff, Part IX, Subpart B, 
provides Project Developer shall also have a one-time option to extend any 
milestone (other than any milestone related to Site Control) for a total period of 
one year regardless of cause.  Other milestone dates stated in the Generation 
Interconnection Agreement shall be deemed to be extended coextensively with 
Project Developer’s use this provision. 
 
5. Termination and withdrawal of a New Service Request for failure to meet a 
milestone shall not relieve the Project Developer from reimbursing the 
Transmission Provider (for the benefit of the affected Transmission Owner(s)) for 
the costs incurred prior to such termination and withdrawal.  Applicable 
provisions of the Generation Interconnection Agreement set forth in Tariff, Part 
IX, Subpart B will continue in effect after termination to the extent necessary to 
provide for final billings, billing adjustments, and the determination and 
enforcement of liability and indemnification obligations arising from events or 
acts that occurred while the CSA or the applicable Generation Interconnection 
Agreement was in effect. 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 332 Winter Capacity Interconnection Rights 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 332 
Winter Capacity Interconnection Rights 
 
 
By August 31 of each calendar year, PJM shall solicit requests from Generation Owners of 
Intermittent Resources and Environmentally Limited Resources which seek to obtain additional 
Capacity Interconnection Rights related to the winter period (defined as November through April 
of a Delivery Year) for the purposes of aggregation under the Tariff, Attachment DD. Such 
additional Capacity Interconnection Rights would be for a one-year period as specified by PJM 
in the solicitation. Responses to such solicitation must be submitted by such interested 
Generation Owners by October 31 prior to the upcoming Base Residual Auction. Such requests 
shall be studied for deliverability similar to any Generation Project Developer that seeks to 
submit a New Service Request; however, such requests shall not be required to submit a New 
Service Request. PJM shall study such requests in a manner so as to prevent infringement on 
available system capabilities of any resource which is already in service, or which has an 
executed service agreement from Tariff, Part IX, or that has a valid New Service Request in a 
Cycle. 
 
 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 333 Interconnection Studies Processing Time 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 1 
Tariff, Part VII, Subpart E, section 333 
Interconnection Studies Processing Time and Metrics 
 
 
A. Phase I System Impact Studies Processing Time 
1.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase I System Impact Studies 
completed within the six month reporting period,  
2.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase I System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six 
month reporting period that were completed more than 120 days, as determined in 
conformance with Tariff, Part VII, Subpart D, section 308(A)(1)(b). 
3.  At the end of the six month reporting period, the number of active valid New 
Service Requests with ongoing incomplete Phase I System Impact Studies 
exceeding 120 days, as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part VII, Subpart 
D, section 308(A)(1)(b). 
4.  Mean time (in days), for Phase I System Impact Studies completed within 
Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting 
period, from the date when Transmission Provider initiated the performance of the 
System Impact Studies to the date when Transmission Provider provided the 
completed Phase I System Impact Study to Project Developers. 
5.  Percentage of New Service Requests with Phase I System Impact Studies 
exceeding 120 days as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part VII, Subpart 
D, section 308(A)(1)(b) to complete this six month reporting period, calculated as 
the sum of this section 333(A)(2) plus 333(A)(3) divided by the sum of 333(A)(1) 
plus 333(A)(3).  
B.  Phase II System Impact Studies Processing Time 
1.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase II System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-
month reporting period. 
2.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase II System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six 
month reporting period that were completed more than 180 days as determined in 
conformance with Tariff, Part VII, Subpart D, section 310(A)(1)(e) after the date 
the end of Decision Point I. 
3.  At the end of the six month reporting period, the number of active valid New 
Service Requests with ongoing incomplete Phase II System Impact Studies 
exceeding 180 days as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part VII, Subpart 
D, section 310(A)(1)(e) after the end of Decision Point I.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 333 Interconnection Studies Processing Time 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 2 
4.  Mean time (in days), for Phase II System Impact Studies completed within 
Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six-month reporting period 
from the day after the end of Decision Point to the date when Transmission 
Provider provided the completed Phase II Interconnection System Impact Study to 
Project Developers. 
5.  Percentage of New Service Requests with Phase II System Impact Studies 
exceeding 180 days as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part VII, Subpart 
D, section 310(A)(1)(e), to complete this six month reporting period, calculated as 
the sum of section 333(B)(2) plus 333(B)(3) divided by the sum of section 
333(B)(1) plus 333(B)(3)).  
C.  Phase III System Impact Studies Processing Time 
1.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase III System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six 
month reporting period.  
2.  Number of New Service Requests that had Phase III System Impact Studies 
completed within Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six 
month reporting period that were completed more 180 days as determined in 
conformance with Tariff, Part VII, Subpart D, section 312(A)(1)(e) after the end 
of Decision Point II. 
3.  At the end of the six month reporting period, the number of active valid New 
Service Requests with ongoing incomplete Phase III System Impact Studies 
exceeding 180 days as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part VII, Subpart 
D, section 312(A)(1)(e) after the end of Decision Point II.  
4.  Mean time (in days), for Phase III System Impact Studies completed within 
Transmission Provider’s coordinated region during the six month reporting 
period, from the day after the end of Decision Point II to the date when 
Transmission Provider provided the completed Phase III Interconnection System 
Impact Study to the Project Developers.  
5.  Percentage of New Service Requests with Phase III System Impact Studies 
exceeding the sum of 180 days as determined in conformance with Tariff, Part 
VII, Subpart D, section 312(A)(1)(e) to complete this six month reporting period, 
calculated as the sum of section 333(C)(2) plus 333(C)(3) divided by the sum of 
section 333(C)(1) plus 333(C)(3)).  
D.  Withdrawn New Service Requests 
1.  Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six month reporting period.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> OPEN ACCESS TRANSMISSION TARIFF --> OATT VI. ADMINISTRATION AND STUDY OF NEW SERVICE 
REQUESTS; R --> OATT VII. TRANSITION CYCLE  GENERATION INTERCONNECTION PROC --> OATT VII Subpart E 
MISCELLANEOUS --> OATT Part VII.E 333 Interconnection Studies Processing Time 
Effective Date: 1/3/2023 - Docket #: ER22-2110-000 - Page 3 
2.  Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six month reporting period before the start of 
Planning Phase I.  
3.  Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six month reporting period from start of Phase I, 
to at or before the end of Decision Point I. 
4.  Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six month reporting period after the end of 
Decision Point to at or before the end of Decision Point II.  
5.  Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue during the six month reporting period after the end of 
Decision Point II to before execution of an interconnection-related service 
agreement or transmission service agreement, or Project Developer or Eligible 
Customer requests the filing of an unexecuted, new interconnection agreement.  
6. Number of New Service Requests withdrawn from Transmission Provider’s 
interconnection queue after execution of an interconnection-related service 
agreement or transmission service agreement, or Project Developer or Eligible 
Customer requests the filing of an unexecuted, new interconnection agreement. 
7.  Mean time (in days), for all withdrawn New Service Requests, from the date 
when the request was determined to be valid to when Transmission Provider 
received the request to withdraw from the Cycle.  
E.  Posting Requirements 
Transmission Provider is required to post on its website the measures in Tariff, Part VII, 
Subpart E, sections 333(A) through 333(D)for each six-month reporting period within 30 
days of the end of the reporting period; however, if the 30th does not fall on a Business 
Day, this time period shall conclude on the next Business Day.  Transmission Provider 
will keep the measures posted on its website for three calendar years with the first 
required reporting year to be 2020.  
F. Additional Compliance Requirements 