Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA ARTICLE 5 -- WITHDRAWAL OR REMOVAL OF A 
PARTY --> RAA Article 5 Section 1 - Withdrawal of a Party 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
5.1 Withdrawal of a Party. 
 
 5.1.1 Notice. 
 
 Upon written notice to the Office of the Interconnection, any Party may withdraw from 
this Agreement, effective upon the completion of its obligations hereunder and the 
documentation by such Party, to the satisfaction of the Office of the Interconnection, that such 
Party is no longer a Load Serving Entity. 
 
 5.1.2 Determination of Obligations. 
 
 A Party's obligations hereunder shall be completed as of the end of the last month for 
which such Party’s obligations have been set at the time said notice is received, except as 
provided in RAA, Article 13, or unless the Members Committee determines that the remaining 
Parties will be able to adjust their obligations and commitments related to the performance of 
this Agreement consistent with such earlier withdrawal date as may be requested by the 
withdrawing Party, without undue hardship or cost, while maintaining the reliability of the PJM 
Region. 
 
 5.1.3 Survival of Obligations upon Withdrawal. 
 
 (a)  The obligations of a Party upon its withdrawal from this Agreement and any 
obligations of that Party under this Agreement at the time of its withdrawal shall survive the 
withdrawal of the Party from this Agreement.  Upon the withdrawal of a Party from this 
Agreement, final settlement of the obligations of such Party under RAA, Article 7 and RAA, 
Article 11 shall include the accounting through the date established pursuant to RAA, Article 5, 
section 5.1.1 and RAA, Article 5, section 5.1.2.  
 
 (b) Any Party that withdraws from this Agreement shall pay all costs and expenses 
associated with additions, deletions and modifications to communication, computer, and other 
affected facilities and procedures, including any filing fees, to effect the withdrawal of the Party 
from the Agreement. 
 
 (c) Prior to withdrawal, a withdrawing Party desiring to remain interconnected with 
the PJM Region shall enter into a control area to control area interconnection agreement with the 
Office of the Interconnection and the transmission owner or Electric Distributor within the PJM 
Region with which its facilities are interconnected. 
  
 5.1.4 Regulatory Review. 
 
 Any withdrawal from this Agreement shall be filed with FERC and shall become 
effective only upon FERC's approval. 
 

