Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 5 
Effective Date: 12/12/2023 - Docket #: ER24-99-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
FORCED OUTAGE RATE CALCULATION 
 
A. The equivalent demand forced outage rate ("EFOR D") shall be calculated as follows: 
 
 EFOR D (%) = {(ff * FOH + fp * EFPOH) / (SH + ff * FOH)} * 100 
 
 where 
    f f = full outage factor 
    f p = partial outage factor 
    FOH = full forced outage hours 
    EFPOH = equivalent forced partial outage hours 
    SH = service hours 
 
B. Calculation of EFOR D for individual Generation Capacity Resources. 
 
For Delivery Years through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year, EFORD shall be calculated at least one 
month prior to the start of the Third Incremental Auction for: (i) each Generation Capacity 
Resource for which a sell offer will be submitted in such Third Incremental Auction; and (ii) 
each Generation Capacity Resource previously committed to serve load in such Delivery Year 
pursuant to an FRR Capacity Plan or prior auctions for such Delivery Year.   
 
Such calculation shall be based upon such resource’s service history in the twelve (12) 
consecutive months ending September 30 last preceding such auction.  Historical data shall be 
based on official reports of the Parties under rules and practices set forth in the PJM Manuals.  
Such rate shall also include (i) an adjustment, if any, for capacity unavailable due to energy 
limitations determined in accordance with definitions and criteria set forth in the PJM Manuals 
and (ii) any other adjustments approved by the Members Committee to adjust the parameters of a 
designated unit.  For purposes of the calculations under this Paragraph B, outages deemed to be 
outside plant management control in accordance with NERC guidelines shall be considered. 
 
1. The EFOR D of a unit in service twelve or more full calendar months prior to the 
calculation month shall be the average rate experienced by such unit during the 
twelve-month period specified above.  Historical data shall be based on official 
reports of the Parties under rules and practices set forth in the PJM Manuals. 
 
2. The EFOR D of a unit in service at least one full calendar month but less than the 
twelve-month period specified above shall be the average of the EFOR D 
experienced by the unit weighted by full months of service, and the class average 
rate for units with that capability and of that type weighted by a factor of 
[(twelve) minus (the number of months the unit was in service)].  Historical data 
shall be based on official reports of the Parties under rules and practices set forth 
in the PJM Manuals. 
 
C. Calculation of average EFOR D for the PJM Region    

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 5 
Effective Date: 12/12/2023 - Docket #: ER24-99-000 - Page 2 
 
For Delivery Years through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year, the forecast average EFOR D for the 
PJM Region in a Delivery Year shall be the average of the forced outage rates, weighted for unit 
capability and expected time in service, attributable to all of the Generation Capacity Resources 
within the PJM Region, that are planned to be in service during the Delivery Year, including 
Generation Capacity Resources purchased from specified units and excluding Generation 
Capacity Resources sold outside the PJM Region from specified units.  Such rate shall also 
include (i) an adjustment, if any, for capacity unavailable due to energy limitations determined in 
accordance with definitions and criteria set forth in the PJM Manuals and (ii) any other 
adjustments developed by the Office of Interconnection and maintained in the PJM Manuals to 
adjust the parameters of a designated unit when such parameters are or will be used to determine 
a future PJM Region reserve requirement and such adjustment is required to more accurately 
predict the future performance of such unit in light of extraordinary circumstances.  For the 
purposes of this Schedule, the average EFOR D shall be the average of the capacity-weighted 
EFORDs of all units committed to serve load in the PJM Region; and for purposes of the EFOR D 
calculations under this Paragraph C outages deemed to be outside plant management control in 
accordance with NERC guidelines shall be considered.  All rates shall be in percent. 
 
1. The EFOR D of a unit not yet in service or which has been in service less than one 
full calendar year at the time of forecast shall be the class average rate for units 
with that capability and of that type, as estimated and used in the calculation of 
the Forecast Pool Requirement. 
 
2. The EFOR D of a unit in service five or more full calendar years at the time of 
forecast shall be the average rate experienced by such unit during the five most 
recent calendar years.  Historical data shall be based on official reports of the 
Parties under rules and practices developed by the Office of Interconnection and 
maintained in the PJM Manuals. 
 
3. The EFOR D of a unit in service at least one full calendar year but less than five 
full calendar years at the time of the forecast shall be determined as follows: 
 
 Full Calendar 
 Years of Service 
 
1 One-fifth the rate experienced during the calendar year, 
plus four-fifths the class average rate. 
 
2 Two-fifths the average rate experienced during the two 
calendar years, plus three-fifths the class average rate. 
 
3 Three-fifths the average rate experienced during the three 
calendar years, plus two-fifths the class average rate. 
 
4 Four-fifths the average rate experienced during the four 
calendar years, plus one-fifth the class average rate. 

