Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1 --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1.C-Election, and 
Termination of Election 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 1 
C. Election, and Termination of Election, of FRR Alternative 
 
1. No less than four months before the conduct of the Base Residual Auction for the first 
Delivery Year for which such election is to be effective, any Party seeking to elect the FRR 
Alternative shall notify the Office of the Interconnection in writing of such election.  Such election 
shall be for a minimum term of five consecutive Delivery Years.  No later than one month before 
such Base Residual Auction, such Party shall submit its FRR Capacity Plan demonstrating its 
commitment of Capacity Resources for the term of such election sufficient to meet such Party’s 
Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation (and all other applicable obligations under this Schedule) for 
the load identified in such plan.  No later than the last business day prior to the start of the relevant 
Delivery Year in which Capacity Performance requirements shall apply to such FRR Entity, the 
FRR Entity must also elect whether it seeks to be subject to the Non-Performance Charge for 
Capacity Performance Resources and Seasonal Capacity Performance Resources, as provided in 
section 10A of Attachment DD of the PJM Tariff, and described in section G.1 of this Schedule 
8.1, or to physical non-performance assessments, as described in section G.2 of this Schedule 8.1. 
 
2. An FRR Entity may terminate its election of the FRR Alternative effective with the 
commencement of any Delivery Year following the minimum five Delivery Year commitment by 
providing written notice of such termination to the Office of the Interconnection no later than two 
months prior to the Base Residual Auction for such Delivery Year.  An FRR Entity that has 
terminated its election of the FRR Alternative shall not be eligible to re-elect the FRR Alternative 
for a period of five consecutive Delivery Years following the effective date of such termination. 
 
3. Notwithstanding subsections C.1 and C.2 of this Schedule, in the event of a State 
Regulatory Structural Change, a Party may elect, or terminate its election of, the FRR Alternative 
effective as to any Delivery Year by providing written notice of such election or termination to the 
Office of the Interconnection in good faith as soon as the Party becomes aware of such State 
Regulatory Structural Change but in any event no later than two months prior to the Base Residual 
Auction for such Delivery Year. 
 
4. To facilitate the elections and notices required by this Schedule, except a new FRR Entity’s 
initial election, the Office of the Interconnection shall post, in addition to the information required 
by Section 5.11(a) of Attachment DD to the PJM Tariff, the percentage of Capacity Resources 
required to be located in each Locational Deliverability Area by no later than one month prior to 
the deadline for a Party to provide such elections and notices. 
 
5. Notwithstanding subsections C.1 and C.2 of this Schedule, an FRR Entity that elected the 
FRR Alternative for a Delivery Year prior to the 2025/2026 Delivery Year, may terminate its 
election of the FRR Alternative prior to meeting the minimum term of five years without penalty 
by providing written notice of such termination to the Office of the Interconnection no later than 
two months prior to the Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year through the 2028/2029 
Delivery Year.   

