Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9 
Effective Date: 12/12/2023 - Docket #: ER24-99-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 9 
 
PROCEDURES FOR 
ESTABLISHING THE CAPABILITY OF GENERATION CAPACITY RESOURCES 
 
A. Such rules and procedures as may be required to determine and demonstrate the 
capability of Generation Capacity Resources for the purposes of meeting a Load Serving 
Entity’s obligations under the Agreement shall be developed by the Office of the 
Interconnection and maintained in the PJM Manuals. 
 
B. The rules and procedures shall recognize the difference in the relative ability of units to 
maintain output at stated capability over a specified period of time.  Factors affecting 
such ability include, but are not limited to, fuel availability, stream flow and/or reservoir 
storage for hydro units, energy storage capability for Energy Storage Resources, energy 
source variability and intermittency, mechanical limitations, and system operating 
policies.  For this purpose, the basis for determining and demonstrating the capability of a 
particular generating unit shall be described in RAA, Schedule 9. 
 
C. For Delivery Years through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year 
For Unlimited Resources, the capability of the generating unit is based on the level of 
output that the unit can provide under the site conditions expected to exist at the time of 
PJM system peak load where such conditions include, but are not limited to, ambient air 
temperature, humidity, barometric pressure, intake water temperature, and cooling system 
performance.  Generating units with the ability to operate continuously across all hours of 
an Operating Day without interruption if needed include, but are not limited to, nuclear 
and fossil-fired steam units, combined cycle units, combustion turbine units, 
reciprocating engine units, and fuel cell units.  
 
For ELCC Resources, the Office of the Interconnection shall determine the capability of 
the resource to meet a Load Serving Entity’s obligations under the Agreement using an 
effective load carrying capability analysis, as set forth in RAA, Schedule 9.1, with 
additional implementation details provided in the PJM Manuals.  
 
D. For the 2025/2026 Delivery Year and Subsequent Delivery Years 
The Office of the Interconnection shall determine the capability of Generation Capacity 
Resources to meet a Load Serving Entity’s obligations under the Agreement using an 
effective load carrying capability analysis, as set forth in RAA, Schedule 9.2, with 
additional implementation details provided in the PJM Manuals. 
 

