Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 2 
Effective Date: 9/17/2010 - Docket #: ER10-2710-006 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
STANDARDS FOR INTEGRATING AN ENTITY INTO THE PJM REGION 
 
A. The following standards will be applied by the Office of the Interconnection to determine 
the eligibility of an entity to become a part of the PJM Region.  For an entity to be 
integrated into the PJM Region it must possess generation and transmission attributes that 
would enable the entity to share its reserves with other entities in the PJM Region.  
Appropriate transmission and reliability studies are to be performed to determine the 
adequate transmission capability necessary to integrate the entity into the PJM Region 
consistent with Good Utility Practice. 
 
B. In addition, the entity shall meet the following requirements to be included in the PJM 
Region: 
 
1. All load, generation and transmission operating as part of the PJM Region’s 
interconnected system must be included within the metered boundaries of the 
PJM Region. 
 
2. The entity will accept and comply with the PJM Region’s standards with respect 
to system design, equipment ratings, operating practices and maintenance 
practices as set forth in the PJM Manuals so that sufficient electrical equipment, 
control capability, information and communication are available to the Office of 
the Interconnection for planning and operation of the PJM Region. 
 
3. The load, generation and transmission facilities of each entity shall be included in 
the telemetry to the Office of the Interconnection from a 24-hour control center.  
Each system operator in these control centers must be trained and delegated 
sufficient authority to take any action necessary to assure that the system for 
which the operator is responsible is operated in a stable and reliable manner. 
 
4. Each entity must have compatible operational communication mechanisms, 
maintained at its expense, to interact with the Office of the Interconnection and 
for internal requirements. 
 
5. Each entity must assure the continued compatibility of its local system energy 
management system monitoring and telecommunications systems to satisfy the 
technical requirements of interacting with the Office of the Interconnection as it 
directs the operation of the PJM Region. 
 

