Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 4 --> RAA SCHEDULE 4.C Methodology 
Effective Date: 12/12/2023 - Docket #: ER24-99-000 - Page 1 
C. Methodology 
 
 Each year, the Forecast Pool Requirement for at least each of the next five Planning 
Periods shall be projected by applying suitable probability methods to the data and forecasts 
provided by the Parties and obtained from Electric Distributors, as described in RAA, Schedule 
11, the Operating Agreement and in the PJM Manuals.  The projection of the Forecast Pool 
Requirement shall consider the following data and forecasts as necessary: 
 
1. Seasonal peak load forecasts for each Planning Period as calculated by PJM in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals reflecting (a) load forecasts with a 50 percent 
probability of being too high or too low and (b) seasonal peak diversities 
determined by the Office of the Interconnection. 
 
2. Variability of loads within each week through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year, and 
beginning with the 2025/2026 Delivery Year, hourly load shapes and variability, 
due to weather and other recurring and random factors, as determined by the 
Office of the Interconnection. 
 
3. Generating unit capability and types for every existing and proposed unit. 
 
4. Generator Forced Outage rates for existing mature generating units, as determined 
by the Office of the Interconnection, based on data submitted by the Parties for 
their respective systems, from recent and historical experience, and for immature 
and proposed units based upon forecast rates related to unit types, capabilities and 
other pertinent characteristics. 
 
5. Generator Maintenance Outage factors and planned outage factors as determined 
by the Office of the Interconnection based on forecasts and historical data 
submitted by the Parties for their respective systems. 
 
6. Miscellaneous adjustments to capacity due to all causes, including weather, as 
determined by the Office of the Interconnection, based on forecasts submitted by 
the Parties for their respective systems. 
 
7. The emergency capacity assistance available as a function of interconnections of 
the PJM Region with other Control Areas, as limited by the capacity benefit 
margin considered in the determination of available transfer capability and the 
probable availability of generation in excess of load requirements in such areas. 
 

