Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.2 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 9.2: 
 
EFFECTIVE LOAD CARRYING CAPABILITY ANALYSIS FOR THE 
2025/2026 DELIVERY YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT DELIVERY YEARS 
 
A. Overview of Effective Load Carrying Capability Analysis 
 
The inputs of the effective load carrying capability analysis shall consider similar data and 
forecasts as that used in development of the FPR, as described in Schedule 4.C, and will include: 
-Historical weather and load data; 
-Historical output of existing Variable Resources; 
-Estimates of putative historical output for planned Variable Resources; 
-Forced outage patterns for Unlimited Resources, including consideration of correlated 
outage risks;  
-Resource deployment forecast; and 
-Modeling parameters for Limited Duration Resources, Combination Resources, and 
Demand Resources.  
 
The outputs of the effective load carrying capability analysis include: 
-ELCC Class Rating values, in percent.  
 
B.  ELCC Classes 
 
(1)  (a) The following are the ELCC Classes for Variable Resources:   
 
- Tracking Solar Class 
- Fixed-Tilt Solar Class 
- Onshore Wind Class 
- Offshore Wind Class 
- Intermittent Landfill Gas Class 
- Intermittent Hydropower Class  
- Other Variable Resource Class 
(b) The following are the types of ELCC Classes for Limited Duration Resources:   
- The type of Capacity Storage Resource Classes 
- The type of Other Limited Duration Resource Classes 
Within those types, the following are the specific ELCC Classes for Limited Duration 
Resources: 
- Capacity Storage Resource Class (4-Hour Duration) 
- Capacity Storage Resource Class (6-Hour Duration) 
- Capacity Storage Resource Class (8-Hour Duration) 
- Capacity Storage Resource Class (10-Hour Duration) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.2 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 2 
- Other Limited Duration Class (4-Hour Duration) 
- Other Limited Duration Class (6-Hour Duration) 
- Other Limited Duration Class (8-Hour Duration) 
- Other Limited Duration Class (10-Hour Duration) 
(c)  The following are the ELCC Classes for Combination Resources: 
- The types of Hybrid Resource Classes, as further specified in subpart (2) below 
- Hydropower With Non-Pumped Storage Class 
- Complex Hybrid Class 
- The types of Other Limited Duration Combination Classes, as further specified in subpart 
(3). 
(d) The following are the ELCC Classes for Unlimited Resources 
- Nuclear Class 
- Coal Class 
- Gas Combined Cycle Class 
- Gas Combustion Turbine Class 
- Gas Combined Cycle Dual Fuel Class 
- Oil Fired Combustion Turbine Class (effective with the 2027/2028 Delivery Year) 
- Gas Combustion Turbine Dual Fuel Class 
- Diesel Utility Class 
- Other Steam Class 
- Waste to Energy Steam Class (effective with the 2027/2028 Delivery Year) 
- Other Unlimited Resource Class 
 (e) The following are the ELCC Classes for Demand Resources 
- Demand Resource Class 
(2) PJM shall establish Hybrid Resource Classes for all “open-loop” combinations of each 
Capacity Storage Resource class and each Variable Resource class or Unlimited Resource class, 
as well as all “closed-loop” combinations of each Capacity Storage Resource class and each 
Variable Resource class or Unlimited Resource class.  An “open-loop” resource operates by 
charging the storage component from the grid, while a “closed-loop” resource does not. 
(3) PJM shall establish “Other Limited Duration Combination Classes” for all combinations of 
each Variable Resource Class and each Other Limited Duration Resource Class, and for 
combinations of an Unlimited Resource with each Other Limited Duration Resource Class.   
(4) For a given Delivery Year, ELCC Class Ratings will not be calculated for any ELCC Class to 
the extent that no member of the class is expected to provide, or offer to provide capacity, in the 
applicable Delivery Year.  PJM will determine the ELCC Class Ratings for an ELCC Class when 
any one of the following criteria are met: 
(a)  An Existing Generation Capacity Resource or a Component DER as part of an 
Existing DER Capacity Aggregation Resource is in such class; or 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.2 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 3 
(b)  A Planned Generation Capacity Resource or a Component DER as part of a 
Planned DER Capacity Aggregation Resource has submitted timely and valid data 
through the ELCC data submission process and is in such class; or 
(c)  The resource deployment forecast contains a resource in such class. 
 
(5) (a) For each ELCC Resource, except an ELCC Resource that is a Capacity Storage 
Resource or includes a Capacity Storage Resource component, PJM shall determine the ELCC 
Class of which such resource is a member by matching the physical characteristics of such 
resource with the definition of the ELCC Class.   
 
(b) For each ELCC Resource that is a Capacity Storage Resource or includes a Capacity 
Storage Resource component, PJM shall determine, by matching the physical characteristics of 
such resource with the definition of the ELCC Class, the type of ELCC Class of which such 
resource is a member; provided however, the Capacity Resource Provider shall choose the 
specific ELCC Class within the type ELCC Class identified by PJM that corresponds to the 
chosen characteristic duration.  
 
If the Capacity Resource Provider fails to choose, PJM will choose a specific ELCC Class to 
assign to such resource.  The election of the specific ELCC Class corresponding to the chosen 
characteristic duration shall be for a term of five consecutive Delivery Years.  After such five 
Delivery Year period, a Capacity Resource Provider may request a change in the ELCC Class, 
based on choosing a different characteristic duration, by submitting to the Office of the 
Interconnection a written request to switch ELCC Classes and provide documentation supporting 
such change.  A Capacity Resource Provider must submit such a request, and supporting 
documentation, by August 1 prior to the calendar year for the RPM Auction in which the ELCC 
Resource intends to submit a Sell Offer or otherwise commit to provide capacity, except for 
2025/2026 Delivery Year such required information must be provided to the Office of the 
Interconnection in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the Interconnection shall 
provide no later than following November 15 written notification to the Capacity Resource 
Provider of its determination.  If the request is granted, the ELCC Resource shall be considered 
in the new ELCC Class starting with the next Delivery Year for which no RPM Auction has been 
conducted and for subsequent Delivery Years.  If the request is denied, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall include in the notice a written explanation for the denial. 
 
(6) Mixed-technology resources are composed of components with different generation 
technologies, at least one of which would be an ELCC Resource, behind a single Point of 
Interconnection.  For a mixed-technology resource composed of components that do not have 
significant interaction, the components are eligible to participate as separate resources. A mixed-
technology resource composed of components that have significant interaction must participate 
as a single Combination Resource (or, if the components would all be Variable Resources, then 
as a single Variable Resource).   
 
The Capacity Resource Provider of a mixed-technology resource eligible to participate as either 
a single ELCC Resource or as multiple stand-alone resources shall elect, for a term of five 
consecutive Delivery Years, whether PJM is to model it as a single ELCC Resource or as 
multiple stand-alone resources.  After such five Delivery Year period, a Capacity Resource 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.2 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 4 
Provider may request a change in such modelling approach by submitting to the Office of the 
Interconnection a written request to change the modelling approach and provide documentation 
supporting such change.  A Capacity Resource Provider must submit such a request, and 
supporting documentation, by August 1 prior to the calendar year for the RPM Auction in which 
the ELCC Resource(s) intend(s) to submit a Sell Offer or otherwise commit to provide capacity, 
except for 2025/2026 Delivery Year such required information must be provided to the Office of 
the Interconnection in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the Interconnection 
shall provide no later than following November 15 written notification to the Capacity Resource 
Provider of its determination.  If the request is granted, the ELCC Resource(s) shall be modelled 
as requested starting with the next Delivery Year for which no RPM Auction has been conducted 
and for subsequent Delivery Years.  If the request is denied, the Office of the Interconnection 
shall include in the notice a written explanation for the denial. 
 
C. Calculation of ELCC Class Rating 
 
ELCC Class Ratings for a Delivery Year are calculated by adding to the forecasted resource 
portfolio incremental quantities of resources belonging to the subject ELCC Class, depending on 
the resource type: 
(1)  The ELCC Class Rating of Variable Resources, Limited Duration Resources, Unlimited 
Resources (except Other Unlimited Resources), and Demand Resources shall be the ratio of the 
expected unserved energy improvement resulting from adding an incremental quantity of the 
subject ELCC Class to the expected unserved energy  improvement resulting from adding an 
incremental quantity of an Unlimited Resource with no outages, where expected unserved energy 
improvement is calculated relative to the Portfolio EUE for the Delivery Year. 
(2)  No ELCC Class Rating is determined for Combination Resources and ELCC Resources 
in the Hydropower with Non-Pumped Storage Class, in the Complex Hybrid Class, in the Other 
Unlimited Resource Class, and in any ELCC Class whose members are so distinct from one 
another that a single ELCC Class Rating would fail to capture their physical characteristics.   
 
D. Calculation of Accredited UCAP and ELCC Resource Performance Adjustment  
 
(1) (a) For Variable Resources and Limited Duration Resources, Accredited UCAP values 
shall be equal to the lesser of the resource’s Capacity Interconnection Right or the product of: 
(i) the Effective Nameplate Capacity; 
(ii) the applicable ELCC Class Rating; and 
(iii) the ELCC Resource Performance Adjustment. 
(b) For any resource in an ELCC Class for which no Class Rating has been calculated 
pursuant to C(2), the Accredited UCAP shall be based on a resource-specific effective 
load carrying capability analysis based on the resource’s unique parameters. 
(c) For Unlimited Resources that have an ELCC Class Rating determined pursuant to 
C(1), Accredited UCAP values shall be equal to the product of: 
(i) the installed capacity; 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.2 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 5 
(ii) the applicable ELCC Class Rating; and 
(iii) the ELCC Resource Performance Adjustment. 
(d) For Demand Resources, Accredited UCAP values shall be equal to the product of: 
(i) the Nominated Value of the Demand Resource; and 
(ii) the applicable ELCC Class Rating. 
 (2) The ELCC Resource Performance Adjustment shall be calculated according to the 
following methods, as further detailed in the PJM Manuals:  
 
(a) For a Variable Resource, a Limited Duration Resource, and an Unlimited Resource: 
based on a metric consisting of the weighted average expected hourly output of the 
resource in the ELCC model during hours of loss of load risk where: (i) the weights 
correspond to the modeled probability of losing load in such hour and (ii) the expected 
hourly output is based on the resource’s modeled output during the same hour on days 
since June 1st, 2012 identified as having similar weather from an RTO-perspective. For a 
given resource or component, the Performance Adjustment shall equal the ratio of such 
metric to the average (weighted by the Effective Nameplate Capacity) of such metrics for 
all units in the applicable Variable Resource ELCC Class or applicable Unlimited 
Resource ELCC Class.   
In determining the ELCC Resource Performance Adjustment, the actual output of a 
Variable Resource shall be adjusted to reflect historical curtailments, and output in any 
hour shall be capped at: (i) the greater of the Variable Resource’s Capacity 
Interconnection Rights, or the transitional system capability as limited by the transitional 
resource MW ceiling as defined in the PJM Manuals, awarded for the applicable Delivery 
Year, for hours in the months of June through October and the following May of the 
Delivery Year, and (ii) the Variable Resource’s assessed deliverability, as defined in the 
PJM Manuals, for hours in the months of November through April of the Delivery Year. 
The output of an Unlimited Resource in any hour shall be capped at the greater of the 
resource’s Capacity Interconnection Rights, or the transitional system capability as 
limited by the transitional resource MW ceiling as defined in the PJM Manuals, awarded 
for the applicable Delivery Year.. 
E.  Calculation of Accredited UCAP Factor 
 
For Generation Capacity Resources, PJM shall determine an Accredited UCAP Factor, which is 
the ratio of the resource’s Accredited UCAP to the resource’s installed capacity. 
 
G. Installed Capacity of ELCC Resources 
 
Rules and procedures for technically determining and demonstrating the installed capacity of 
ELCC Resources shall be developed by the Office of the Interconnection and maintained in the 
PJM Manuals.  The installed capacity of a Limited Duration Resource is based on the sustained 
level of output that the unit can provide and maintain over a continuous period, whereby the 
duration of that period matches the characteristic duration of the corresponding ELCC Class, 
with consideration given to ambient conditions expected to exist at the time of PJM system peak 
load, as described in the PJM Manuals.  The installed capacity of a Combination Resource (other 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.2 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 6 
than Hydropower With Non-Pumped Storage) is based on the lesser of the Maximum Facility 
Output or the sum of the equivalent Effective Nameplate Capacity values of the resource’s 
constituent components considered on a stand-alone basis. The installed capacity of an Unlimited 
Resource and Variable Resource shall be determined in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The 
installed capacity of Demand Resources, for purposes of the ELCC analysis, is based on the 
forecasted deployment level in the PJM Load Forecast.  
H. Details of the Effective Load Carrying Capability Methodology 
 
The effective load carrying capability analysis shall compare expected hourly load levels (based 
on historical weather) with the expected hourly output of the expected future resource mix in 
order to identify the relative marginal resource adequacy value of each individual ELCC Class 
compared to an Unlimited Resource with no outages.  In performing this analysis, the model 
inputs shall be scaled to meet the annual reliability criteria of the Office of the Interconnection.  
The effective load carrying capability analysis shall compare hourly values for: (i) expected load 
based on historical weather; (ii) expected Variable Resource output; (iii) expected output of 
Limited Duration Resources and of Combination Resources as described below; (iv) expected 
Unlimited Resource output; and (v) expected Demand Resource output.  These expected 
quantities are based on forecasted load and actual and putative values for Variable Resource 
output (standalone or as a component of Combination Resources) and Unlimited Resource output 
after June 1, 2012 (inclusive) through the most recent Delivery Year for which complete data 
exist. For resources that have not existed each year since June 1, 2012, putative output is an 
estimate of the hourly output that resource would have produced in a historical hour if that 
resource had existed in that hour.  For Variable Resources, this putative output estimate is 
developed based on historical weather data consistent with the particular site conditions for each 
such resource in accordance with the PJM Manuals; for Unlimited Resources, the putative output 
is developed based on actual performance of similar units in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  
Variable Resource actual output shall be adjusted in the ELCC analysis to reflect historical 
curtailments, and output shall be capped in any hour at: (i) the greater of the Variable Resource’s 
Capacity Interconnection Rights, or the transitional system capability as limited by the 
transitional resource MW ceiling as defined in the PJM Manuals, awarded for the applicable 
Delivery Year, during the months of June through October and the following May of the 
Delivery Year, and (ii) the Variable Resource’s assessed deliverability, as defined in the PJM 
Manuals, during the months of November through April of the Delivery Year. The output of 
Unlimited Resources shall not exceed the greater of the Unlimited Resource’s Capacity 
Interconnection Rights, or the transitional system capability as limited by the transitional 
resource MW ceiling as defined in the PJM Manuals, awarded for the applicable Delivery Year. 
The effective load carrying capability analysis shall simulate performance of Demand Resources, 
and shall simulate the output of Limited Duration Resources and Combination Resources based 
on their Office of the Interconnection-validated parameters, including the putative output of the 
Variable Resource component of Combination Resources, as described above.   
The quantity of deployed resources studied in the analysis shall be based on resource deployment 
forecasts and, where applicable, on available information based on Sell Offers submitted in RPM 
Auctions or Fixed Resource Requirement plans for the applicable Delivery Year, and, where 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.2 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 7 
applicable, information provided to the Office of the Interconnection regarding intent to offer in 
an RPM Auction, pursuant to the requirements in the Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.5.  
The model inputs, specifically the load scenarios, shall be scaled to meet the annual reliability 
criteria of the Office of the Interconnection. The resulting expected unserved energy constitutes 
the Portfolio EUE for the Delivery Year. Energy Resources are not included in the effective load 
carrying capability analysis.  Generating units that are expected to only offer or otherwise 
provide a portion of their Accredited UCAP for that Delivery Year are represented in the 
analysis in proportion to the expected quantity offered or delivered divided by the Accredited 
UCAP. 
I. Methodology to Simulate Output of Certain Resources in the Effective Load 
Carrying Capability Model 
 
The effective load carrying capability analysis shall simulate the output of Limited Duration 
Resources and Combination Resources based on their physical parameters, including limited 
storage capability, and shall simulate the deployment of Demand Resources.  The analysis shall 
simulate output from the subject Limited Duration Resources, Combination Resources, and 
Demand Resources in hours in which all output from Unlimited Resources and available output 
from Variable Resources is insufficient to meet load.  The analysis shall first simulate the output 
of Demand Resources.  If the simulated output of Demand Resources is insufficient to meet load, 
then the output of the subject Limited Duration Resources and Combination Resources shall be 
simulated on an hour-by-hour basis based on their relative duration, starting from longer duration 
resources to shorter duration resources. The output of Combination Resources shall be capped in 
any hour at: (i) the greater of the Combination Resource's Capacity Interconnection Rights, or 
the transitional system capability as limited by the transitional resource MW ceiling as defined in 
the PJM Manuals, awarded for the applicable Delivery Year, during the months of June through 
October and the following May of the Delivery Year, and (ii) the Combination Resource's 
assessed deliverability, as defined in the PJM Manuals, during the months of November through 
April of the Delivery Year.  Energy Storage Resource charging is during hours with sufficient 
margin, including between daily peaks if necessary.  
J. Administration of Effective Load Carrying Capability Analysis 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall post final ELCC Class Rating values at least once per 
year in a report that also includes appropriate details regarding methodology and inputs.  The 
Office of the Interconnection shall post this report and shall communicate ELCC Resource 
Performance Adjustment values to applicable Capacity Resource Providers no later than five 
months prior to the start of the target Delivery Year, as described in the PJM Manuals. 
Accredited UCAP values for the applicable Delivery Year shall establish the maximum Unforced 
Capacity that an ELCC Resource can physically provide or offer to provide in the applicable 
Delivery Year.  
The Office of the Interconnection shall also post preliminary ELCC Class Rating values for nine 
subsequent Delivery Years.  For any Delivery Year for which a final ELCC Class Rating has not 
been posted and a preliminary ELCC Class Rating has been posted, the Accredited UCAP of an 
ELCC Resource for such Delivery Year shall be based on the most recent preliminary ELCC 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.2 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 8 
Class Rating value for that Delivery Year, together with the most recently calculated ELCC 
Resource Performance Adjustment value for that ELCC Resource.  Except to the extent specified 
above or otherwise specified, the preliminary ELCC Class Rating values for future years are 
non-binding and are only for indicative purposes.  A Capacity Resource Provider can offer or 
provide capacity from an ELCC Resource that is not subject to a capacity market must offer 
obligation (as specified in Tariff, Attachment DD, Section 6.6) at a level less than the Accredited 
UCAP for such resource.    
In order to facilitate the effective load carrying capability analysis, the Capacity Resource 
Provider of each ELCC Resource must submit to the Office of the Interconnection the required 
information as specified in the PJM Manuals by no later than August 1 prior to the calendar year 
for the RPM Auction in which the ELCC Resource intends to submit a Sell Offer or otherwise 
commit to provide capacity, except for 2025/2026 Delivery Years such required information 
must be provided to the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The 
required information may include relevant physical parameters, relevant historical data such as 
weather data and actual or estimated historical energy output, and documentation supporting 
such parameters and historical data.  The relevant physical parameters are those that are 
incorporated into the effective load carrying capability analysis.  The parameters required for 
Hydropower With Non-Pumped Storage shall include Ordinary Water Storage and any 
applicable Exigent Water Storage.  Submitted parameters must indicate the expected duration for 
which any submitted physical parameters are valid. 
The Office of the Interconnection shall evaluate, validate, and approve the foregoing information 
in accordance with the process set forth in the PJM Manuals.  In evaluating the validity of 
submitted information, the Office of the Interconnection may assess the consistency of such 
information with observed conditions.  If the Office of the Interconnection observes that the 
information provided by the Capacity Resource Provider of the ELCC Resource is inconsistent 
with observed conditions, the Office of the Interconnection will coordinate with the Capacity 
Resource Provider of the ELCC Resource to understand the information and observed conditions 
before making a determination regarding the validity of the applicable parameters.  The Office of 
the Interconnection may engage the services of a consultant with technical expertise to evaluate 
the foregoing information.  
After the Office of the Interconnection has completed its evaluation of the foregoing information, 
the Office of the Interconnection shall notify the Capacity Resource Provider in writing whether 
the submitted information is considered invalid by no later than September 1 following the 
submission of the information. The Office of the Interconnection’s determination on the validity 
of the foregoing information shall continue for the applicable Delivery Year and, if requested, for 
such longer period as the Office of the Interconnection may determine is supported by the data.  
In the event that the Office of the Interconnection is unable to validate any of the required 
information, physical parameters, supporting documentation, or other related information 
submitted by the Capacity Resource Provider of an ELCC Resource, then the Office of the 
Interconnection shall calculate Accredited UCAP values for that ELCC Resource based only on 
the validated information.  Such ELCC Resource shall not be permitted to offer or otherwise 
provide capacity above such Accredited UCAP values until the Office of the Interconnection 
determines new Accredited UCAP values for such resource. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.2 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 9 
Capacity Resource Providers of ELCC Resources that are hydropower plants with water storage 
must provide documentation to support the physical parameters provided for expected load 
carrying capability analysis modeling, as specified in the PJM Manuals. This documentation 
must: (a) support the plant’s physical capabilities; (b) demonstrate that the parameters do not 
violate any federal, state, river basin, or other applicable authority operating limitations of the 
plant; and (c) demonstrate full authorization from FERC, any river basin commissions, and any 
other applicable authorities to meet those capabilities. 

