Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 16 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 16 
 
Non-Retail Behind the Meter Generation 
Maximum Generation Emergency Obligations 
 
 1. A Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation resource that has output that is netted 
from the Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation of a Party pursuant to RAA, Schedule 7 shall be 
required to operate at its full output during the first ten times between November 1 and October 
31 that Maximum Generation Emergency conditions occur in the zone in which the Non-Retail 
Behind The Meter Generation resource is located. 
 
 2. The Party for which Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation output is netted 
from its Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation shall be required to report to PJM scheduled 
outages of the resource prior to the occurrence of such outage in accordance with the time 
requirements and procedures set forth in the PJM Manuals.  Such Party also shall report to PJM 
the output of the Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation resource during each Maximum 
Generation Emergency condition in which the resource is required to operate in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in PJM Manuals. 
 
 3. Except for failures to operate due to scheduled outages during the months of 
October through May, for each instance a Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation resource 
fails to operate, in whole or in part, as required in paragraph 1 above, the amount of operating 
Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation from such resource that is eligible for netting will be 
reduced pursuant to the following formula: 
 
  Adjusted   
  ENRBTMG =  ENRBTMG – ∑ (10% of the Not Run NRBTMG) 
 
  Where: 
 
ENRBTMG equals the operating Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation eligible for netting as 
determined pursuant to RAA, Schedule 7.     
 
Not Run NRBTMG is the amount in megawatts that the Non-Retail Behind The 
Meter Generation resource failed to produce during an occurrence of Maximum 
Generation Emergency conditions in which the resource was required to operate.  
 
∑ (10% of the Not Run NRBTMG) is the summation of 10% megawatt 
reductions associated with the events of non-performance. 
 
  The Adjusted ENRBTMG shall not be less than zero and shall be applicable for 
the succeeding Planning Period. 
 
4. If a Non-Retail Behind The Meter Generation resource that is required to operate during a 
Maximum Generation Emergency condition is an Energy Resource and injects energy into the 
Transmission System during the Maximum Generation Emergency condition, the Network 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 16 
Effective Date: 2/18/2020 - Docket #: ER20-646-000 - Page 2 
Customer that owns the resource shall be compensated for such injected energy in accordance 
with the PJM market rules. 

