Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1 --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1.D-FRR Capacity 
Plans 
Effective Date: 8/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2447-003 - Page 1 
D. FRR Capacity Plans 
 
1. Each FRR Entity shall submit its initial FRR Capacity Plan as required by subsection C.1 
of this Schedule, and shall annually extend and update such plan by no later than one month prior 
to the Base Residual Auction for each succeeding Delivery Year in such plan.  Each FRR 
Capacity Plan shall indicate the nature and current status of each resource, including the status of 
each Planned Generation Capacity Resource or Planned Demand Resource, the planned 
deactivation or retirement of any Generation Capacity Resource or Demand Resource, and the 
status of commitments for each sale or purchase of capacity included in such plan. 
 
1.1 Beginning with the 2020/2021 Delivery Year and for all subsequent Delivery Years, the 
FRR Capacity Plan shall comprise only Capacity Performance Resources and Seasonal Capacity 
Performance Resources.   
 
2. The FRR Capacity Plan of each FRR Entity that commits that it will not sell surplus 
Capacity Resources as a Capacity Market Seller in any auction conducted under Attachment DD 
of the PJM Tariff, or to any direct or indirect purchaser that uses such resource as the basis of 
any Sell Offer in such auction, shall designate Capacity Resources in a megawatt quantity no less 
than the Forecast Pool Requirement for each applicable Delivery Year times the FRR Entity’s 
allocated share of the Preliminary Zonal Peak Load Forecast for such Delivery Year, as 
determined in accordance with procedures set forth in the PJM Manuals.  If the FRR Entity is not 
responsible for all load within a Zone, the Preliminary Forecast Peak Load for such entity shall 
be the Base Zonal FRR Scaling Factor times the summation of the FRR Entity’s MW share of 
the Zonal Weather Normalized Summer Peak last determined prior to the Base Residual Auction 
for such Delivery Year plus the Obligation Peak Load MW associated with any Load Adjustment 
specified for such Delivery Year for any “zone/area” served by the FRR Entity’s Capacity Plan.  
The Obligation Peak Load MW associated with a Load Adjustment specified for a “zonal/area” 
is determined as set forth in RAA, Schedule 8, section B. 
 
The FRR Capacity Plan of each FRR Entity that does not commit that it will not sell surplus 
Capacity Resources as set forth above shall designate Capacity Resources at least equal to the 
Threshold Quantity.  To the extent the FRR Entity’s allocated share of the Final Zonal Peak 
Load Forecast exceeds the FRR Entity’s allocated share of the Preliminary Zonal Peak Load 
Forecast, such FRR Entity’s FRR Capacity Plan shall be updated to designate additional 
Capacity Resources in an amount no less than the Forecast Pool Requirement times such 
increase; provided, however, any excess megawatts of Capacity Resources included in such FRR 
Entity’s previously designated Threshold Quantity, if any, may be used to satisfy the capacity 
obligation for such increased load.  To the extent the FRR Entity’s allocated share of the Final 
Zonal Peak Load Forecast is less than the FRR Entity’s allocated share of the Preliminary Zonal 
Peak Load Forecast, such FRR Entity’s FRR Capacity Plan may be updated to release previously 
designated Capacity Resources in an amount no greater than the Forecast Pool Requirement 
times such decrease.  Peak load values referenced in this section shall be adjusted as necessary to 
take into account any applicable Nominal PRD Values approved pursuant to Schedule 6.1 of this 
Agreement.  Any FRR Entity seeking an adjustment to peak load for Price Responsive Demand 
must submit a separate PRD Plan in compliance with Section 6.1 (provided that the FRR Entity 
shall not specify any PRD Reservation Price), and shall register all PRD-eligible load needed to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1 --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1.D-FRR Capacity 
Plans 
Effective Date: 8/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2447-003 - Page 2 
satisfy its PRD commitment and be subject to compliance charges as set forth in that Schedule 
under the circumstances specified therein; provided that for non-compliance by an FRR Entity, 
the compliance charge rate shall be equal to 1.20 times the Capacity Resource Clearing Price 
resulting from all RPM Auctions for such Delivery Year for the LDA encompassing the FRR 
Entity’s Zone, weight-averaged for the Delivery Year based on the prices established and 
quantities cleared in the RPM auctions for such Delivery Year; and provided further that an 
alternative PRD Provider may provide PRD in an FRR Service Area by agreement with the FRR 
Entity responsible for the load in such FRR Service Area, subject to the same terms and 
conditions as if the FRR Entity had provided the PRD. 
 
3. As to any FRR Entity, the Base Zonal FRR Scaling Factor for each Zone in which it 
serves load for a Delivery Year shall equal [(ZPLDY-ZLA) / ZWNSP], where: 
 
ZPLDY = Preliminary Zonal Peak Load Forecast for such Zone for such Delivery Year;  
 
ZLA = the Zonal MW quantity of Load Adjustment for such Delivery Year; and  
 
ZWNSP = Zonal Weather-Normalized Summer Peak Load for such Zone for the summer 
concluding four years prior to the commencement of such Delivery Year. 
 
4. Capacity Resources identified and committed in an FRR Capacity Plan shall meet all 
requirements under this Agreement, the PJM Tariff, and the PJM Operating Agreement 
applicable to Capacity Resources, including, as applicable, requirements and milestones for 
Planned Generation Capacity Resources and Planned Demand Resources.  A Capacity Resource 
submitted in an FRR Capacity Plan must be on a unit-specific basis, and may not include “slice 
of system” or similar agreements that are not unit specific.  An FRR Capacity Plan may include 
bilateral transactions that commit capacity for less than a full Delivery Year only if the resources 
included in such plan in the aggregate satisfy all obligations for all Delivery Years.  All demand 
response, load management, energy efficiency, or similar programs on which such FRR Entity 
intends to rely for a Delivery Year must be included in the FRR Capacity Plan, subject to 
applicable demand resource constraints for the relevant Delivery Year, submitted three years in 
advance of such Delivery Year and must satisfy all requirements applicable to Demand 
Resources or Energy Efficiency Resources, as applicable, including, without limitation, those set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and the PJM Manuals; provided, however, that previously 
uncommitted Unforced Capacity from such programs may be used to satisfy any increased 
capacity obligation for such FRR Entity resulting from a Final Zonal Peak Load Forecast 
applicable to such FRR Entity.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the FRR Entity 
must submit a Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan 15 business days before the deadline for 
submitting an FRR Capacity Plan as to any Demand Resources it intends to include in such FRR 
Capacity Plan and may only include in such FRR Capacity Plan Demand Resources that are 
approved by PJM following review of such Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan.  The 
requirements, standards, and procedures for a Demand Resource Sell Offer Plan shall be as set 
forth in Schedule 6 of this Agreement, provided that all references (including deadlines) in 
Schedule 6, section A-1 to submission or clearing of a Demand Resource offer in an RPM 
Auction shall be understood for purposes of FRR Entities as referring to inclusion of a Demand 
Resource in an FRR Capacity Plan, and a distinct Demand Resource Officer Certification Form 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1 --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1.D-FRR Capacity 
Plans 
Effective Date: 8/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2447-003 - Page 3 
shall be applicable to FRR Entities, as shown in the PJM Manuals and provided on the PJM 
website. 
 
5. For each LDA for which the Office of the Interconnection is required to establish a 
separate Variable Resource Requirement Curve for any Delivery Year addressed by such FRR 
Capacity Plan, the plan must include a Percentage Internal Resources Required, subject to 
subsections D.1.1 and D.2 of this Schedule.  The Percentage Internal Resources Required will be 
calculated as the LDA Reliability Requirement less the CETL for the Delivery Year, as 
determined by the RTEP process as set forth in the PJM Manuals.  Such requirement shall be 
expressed as a percentage of the Unforced Capacity Obligation based on the Preliminary Zonal 
Peak Load Forecast multiplied by the Forecast Pool Requirement.  Notwithstanding the 
provisions of Sections C.1 and C.2 of this Schedule 8.1, an FRR Entity may terminate its 
election of the FRR Alternative prior to meeting its minimum five year commitment 
without penalty for any Delivery Year after the first Delivery Year of its minimum five 
year FRR commitment for which the Office of the Interconnection will be required to 
establish a separate Variable Resource Requirement Curve by giving written notice two 
months prior to the Base Residual Auction for the Delivery Year. The Office of the 
Interconnection shall be deemed to be required to establish a separate Variable Resource 
Requirement Curve for an LDA if the LDA is the Eastern Mid-Atlantic Region 
(“EMAR”), Southwest Mid-Atlantic Region (“SWMAR”), or Mid-Atlantic Region 
(“MAR”), or for other LDAs if the separate modeling is required by Section 
5.10(a)(ii)(A) or (B) of Attachment DD of the Tariff. 
 
6. An FRR Entity may reduce the Percentage Internal Resources Required as to any LDA to 
the extent the FRR Entity commits to a transmission upgrade that increases the CETL for such 
LDA.  Any such transmission upgrade shall adhere to all requirements for a Qualified 
Transmission Upgrade as set forth in Attachment DD to the PJM Tariff.  The increase in CETL 
used in the FRR Capacity Plan shall be that approved by PJM prior to inclusion of any such 
upgrade in an FRR Capacity Plan.  The FRR Entity shall designate specific additional Capacity 
Resources located in the LDA from which the CETL was increased, to the extent of such 
increase. 
 
7. The Office of the Interconnection will review the adequacy of all submittals hereunder 
both as to timing and content.  A Party that seeks to elect the FRR Alternative that submits an 
FRR Capacity Plan which, upon review by the Office of the Interconnection, is determined not to 
satisfy such Party’s capacity obligations hereunder, shall not be permitted to elect the FRR 
Alternative.  If a previously approved FRR Entity submits an FRR Capacity Plan that, upon 
review by the Office of the Interconnection, is determined not to satisfy such Party’s capacity 
obligations hereunder, the Office of the Interconnection shall notify the FRR Entity, in writing, 
of the insufficiency within five (5) business days after the submittal deadline of the FRR 
Capacity Plan.  Through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year, if the FRR Entity does not cure such 
insufficiency within five (5) business days after receiving such notice of insufficiency, then such 
FRR Entity shall be assessed an FRR Commitment Insufficiency Charge, in an amount equal to 
two times the Cost of New Entry for the relevant location, in $/MW-day, times the shortfall of 
Capacity Resources below the FRR Entity’s capacity obligation (including any Threshold 
Quantity requirement) in such FRR Capacity Plan, for the remaining term of such plan. For 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1 --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1.D-FRR Capacity 
Plans 
Effective Date: 8/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2447-003 - Page 4 
Delivery Years between the 2025/2026 Delivery Year through the 2028/2029 Delivery Year, no 
FRR Commitment Insufficiency Charge shall be assessed. Effective with the 2029/2030 Delivery 
Year and subsequent Delivery Years, if the FRR Entity does not cure such insufficiency within 
five (5) business days after receiving such notice of insufficiency, then such FRR Entity shall be 
assessed an FRR Commitment Insufficiency Charge, in an amount equal to the price level 
corresponding to point (1) of the Variable Resource Requirement curve, as provided in Tariff, 
Attachment DD, section 5.10(a)(i), for the relevant Locational Deliverability Area, in $/MW-
day, times the shortfall of Capacity Resources below the FRR Entity’s capacity obligation 
(including any Threshold Quantity requirement) in such FRR Capacity Plan, for such Delivery 
Year.  
 
8. In a state regulatory jurisdiction that has implemented retail choice, the FRR Entity must 
include in its FRR Capacity Plan all load, including expected load growth, in the FRR Service 
Area, notwithstanding the loss of any such load to or among alternative retail LSEs.  In the case 
of load reflected in the FRR Capacity Plan that switches to an alternative retail LSE, where the 
state regulatory jurisdiction requires switching customers or the LSE to compensate the FRR 
Entity for its FRR capacity obligations, such state compensation mechanism will prevail.  In the 
absence of a state compensation mechanism, the applicable alternative retail LSE shall 
compensate the FRR Entity at the capacity price in the unconstrained portions of the PJM 
Region, as determined in accordance with Attachment DD to the PJM Tariff, provided that the 
FRR Entity may, at any time, make a filing with FERC under Sections 205 of the Federal Power 
Act proposing to change the basis for compensation to a method based on the FRR Entity's cost 
or such other basis shown to be just and reasonable, and a retail LSE may at any time exercise its 
rights under Section 206 of the FPA. 
 
9. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in lieu of providing the compensation described above, 
such alternative retail LSE may, for any Delivery Year subsequent to those addressed in the FRR 
Entity’s then-current FRR Capacity Plan, provide to the FRR Entity Capacity Resources 
sufficient to meet the capacity obligation described in paragraph D.2 for the switched load. Such 
Capacity Resources shall meet all requirements applicable to Capacity Resources pursuant to this 
Agreement, the PJM Tariff, and the PJM Operating Agreement, all requirements applicable to 
resources committed to an FRR Capacity Plan under this Agreement, and shall be committed to 
service to the switched load under the FRR Capacity Plan of such FRR Entity.  The alternative 
retail LSE shall provide the FRR Entity all information needed to fulfill these requirements and 
permit the resource to be included in the FRR Capacity Plan.  The alternative retail LSE, rather 
than the FRR Entity, shall be responsible for any performance charges or compliance penalties 
related to the performance of the resources committed by such LSE to the switched load.  For 
any Delivery Year, or portion thereof, the foregoing obligations apply to the alternative retail 
LSE serving the load during such time period.  PJM shall manage the transfer accounting 
associated with such compensation and shall administer the collection and payment of amounts 
pursuant to the compensation mechanism.  
 
Such load shall remain under the FRR Capacity Plan until the effective date of any termination 
of the FRR Alternative and, for such period, shall not be subject to Locational Reliability 
Charges under Section 7.2 of this Agreement. 

