Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1 --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1.H-Annexation of 
service territory by Public 
Effective Date: 3/24/2025 - Docket #: ER25-1022-000 - Page 1 
H. Annexation of service territory by Public Power Entity 
 
1. In the event a Public Power Entity that is an FRR Entity annexes service territory to include 
new customers on sites where no load had previously existed, then the incremental load on such a 
site shall be treated as unanticipated load growth, and such FRR Entity shall be required to commit 
sufficient resources to cover such obligation in the relevant Delivery Year.   
 
2. In the event a Public Power Entity that is an FRR Entity annexes service territory to include 
load from a Party that has not elected the FRR Alternative, then: 
 
a. For any Delivery Year for which a Base Residual Auction already has been conducted, 
such acquiring FRR Entity shall pay a Locational Reliability Charge for the acquired load. 
 
b. For any Delivery Year for which a Base Residual Auction has not been conducted, such 
acquiring FRR Entity shall include such incremental load in its FRR Capacity Plan. 
 
3. Annexation whereby a Party that has not elected the FRR Alternative acquires load from 
an FRR Entity: 
 
a. For any Delivery Year for which a Base Residual Auction already has been conducted, 
PJM would consider shifted load as unanticipated load growth for purposes of determining 
the RTO/LDA Reliability Requirements, and such shifted load shall pay a Locational 
Reliability Charge. For the next Incremental Auction, the FRR Entity would have an RPM 
must offer requirement for a fixed amount of unforced capacity equal to the shifted load 
times the updated Forecast Pool Requirement applicable to the next Incremental Auction.  
The FRR Entity would continue to have an RPM must offer requirement for all future 
Incremental Auctions for such Delivery Year; however, the RPM must offer requirement 
would terminate once the FRR Entity cleared the required fixed amount of Unforced 
Capacity in Incremental Auction(s) for such Delivery Year. 
 
b. For any Delivery Year for which a Base Residual Auction has not been conducted, the FRR 
Entity that lost such load would no longer include such load in its FRR Capacity Plan, and 
PJM would include such shifted load in future BRAs. 
 

