Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1 --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1.E-Conditions on 
Purchases and Sales of Ca 
Effective Date: 10/28/2023 - Docket #: ER23-2714-000 - Page 1 
E. Conditions on Purchases and Sales of Capacity Resources by FRR Entities 
 
1. An FRR Entity may not include in its FRR Capacity Plan for any Delivery Year any 
Capacity Resource MWs that are committed to RPM for such Delivery Year.  Nothing herein 
shall preclude an FRR Entity from including in its FRR Capacity Plan any uncommitted 
Capacity Resource MWs for such Delivery Year.  Furthermore, nothing herein shall preclude an 
FRR Entity from including in its FRR Capacity Plan a Capacity Resource obtained from a 
different FRR Entity, provided, however, that each FRR Entity shall be individually responsible 
for meeting its capacity obligations hereunder, and provided further that the same megawatts of 
Unforced Capacity shall not be committed to more than one FRR Capacity Plan for any given 
Delivery Year.  
 
2. An FRR Entity that designates Capacity Resources in its FRR Capacity Plan(s) for a 
Delivery Year based on the Threshold Quantity may offer to sell Capacity Resources in excess of 
that needed for the Threshold Quantity in any auction conducted under Tariff, Attachment DD 
for such Delivery Year, but may not offer to sell Capacity Resources in the auctions for any such 
Delivery Year in excess of an amount equal to the lesser of (a) 25% times the Unforced Capacity 
equivalent of the Installed Reserve Margin for such Delivery Year multiplied by the Preliminary 
Forecast Peak Load for which such FRR Entity is responsible under its FRR Capacity Plan(s) for 
such Delivery Year, or (b) 1300 MW. 
 
3. An FRR Entity that designates Capacity Resources in its FRR Capacity Plan(s) for a 
Delivery Year based on the Threshold Quantity may not offer to sell such resources in any 
Reliability Pricing Model auction, but may use such resources to meet any increased capacity 
obligation resulting from unanticipated growth of the loads in its FRR Capacity Plan(s), subject 
to the limitations described in RAA, Schedule 8.1, section D, subsection D.2, or may sell such 
resources to serve loads located outside the PJM Region, or to another FRR Entity, subject to 
subsection E.1 above. 
 
4. A Party that has selected the FRR Alternative for only part of its load in the PJM Region 
pursuant to RAA, Schedule 8.1, section B, subsection B.2 that designates Capacity Resources as 
Self-Supply in a Reliability Pricing Model Auction to meet such Party’s expected Daily 
Unforced Capacity Obligation under RAA, Schedule 8 shall not be required, solely as a result of 
such designation, to identify Capacity Resources in its FRR Capacity Plan(s) based on the 
Threshold Quantity; provided, however, that such Party may not so designate Capacity 
Resources in an amount in excess of the lesser of (a) 25% times such Party’s total expected 
Unforced Capacity obligation (under both RAA, Schedule 8 and RAA, Schedule 8.1), or (b) 200 
MW.  A Party that wishes to avoid the foregoing limitation must identify Capacity Resources in 
its FRR Capacity Plan(s) based on the Threshold Quantity. 
 
 

