Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.1 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 9.1:  
 
EFFECTIVE LOAD CARRYING CAPABILITY ANALYSIS  
FOR DELIVERY YEARS THROUGH THE 2024/2025 DELIVERY YEAR 
 
A. Overview of Effective Load Carrying Capability Analysis 
 
The inputs of the effective load carrying capability analysis include: 
-Historical weather and load data; 
-Historical output of existing Variable Resources; 
-Estimates of putative historical output for planned Variable Resources; 
-Forced outage patterns for Unlimited Resources;  
-Resource deployment forecast; and 
-Modeling parameters for Limited Duration Resources and Combination Resources.  
 
The outputs of the effective load carrying capability analysis include: 
-The ELCC Portfolio UCAP, in MW; 
-ELCC Class UCAP values, in MW; and 
-ELCC Class Rating values, in percent.  
 
B.  ELCC Classes 
 
(1)  (a) The following are the ELCC Classes for Variable Resources:   
 
- Tracking Solar Class 
- Fixed-Tilt Solar Class 
- Onshore Wind Class 
- Offshore Wind Class 
- Landfill Gas Class 
- Intermittent Hydropower Class  
- Other Variable Resource Class 
(b) The following are the types of ELCC Classes for Limited Duration Resources:   
- The type of Capacity Storage Resource Classes 
- The type of Other Limited Duration Resource Classes 
Within those types, the following are the specific ELCC Classes for Limited Duration 
Resources: 
- Capacity Storage Resource Class (4-Hour Duration) 
- Capacity Storage Resource Class (6-Hour Duration) 
- Capacity Storage Resource Class (8-Hour Duration) 
- Capacity Storage Resource Class (10-Hour Duration) 
- Other Limited Duration Class (4-Hour Duration) 
- Other Limited Duration Class (6-Hour Duration) 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.1 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 2 
- Other Limited Duration Class (8-Hour Duration) 
- Other Limited Duration Class (10-Hour Duration) 
(c)  The following are the ELCC Classes for Combination Resources: 
- The types of Hybrid Resource Classes, as further specified below 
- Hydropower With Non-Pumped Storage Class 
- Complex Hybrid Class 
- The types of Other Limited Duration Combination Classes, as further specified below 
(2) PJM shall establish Hybrid Resource Classes for all “open-loop” combinations of each 
Capacity Storage Resource class and each Variable Resource class, as well as all “closed-loop” 
combinations of each Capacity Storage Resource class and each Variable Resource class.  An 
“open-loop” resource is physically and contractually capable of charging from the grid, while a 
“closed-loop” resource is not. 
(3) PJM shall establish “Other Limited Duration Combination Classes” for all combinations of 
each Variable Resource Class and each Other Limited Duration Resource Class, and for 
combinations of an Unlimited Resource with each Other Limited Duration Resource Class.   
(4) For a given Delivery Year, ELCC Class Ratings will not be calculated for any ELCC Class to 
the extent that no member of the class is expected to provide, or offer to provide capacity, in the 
applicable Delivery Year.  PJM will determine the ELCC Class Ratings for an ELCC Class when 
any one of the following criteria are met: 
(a)  An Existing Generation Capacity Resource is in such class; or 
(b)  A Planned Generation Capacity Resource has submitted timely and valid data 
through the ELCC data submission process and is in such class; or 
(c)  The resource deployment forecast contains a resource in such class. 
(5) (a) For each ELCC Resource, except an ELCC Resource that is a Capacity Storage 
Resource or includes a Capacity Storage Resource component, PJM shall determine the ELCC 
Class of which such resource is a member by matching the physical characteristics of such 
resource with the definition of the ELCC Class.   
 
(b) For each ELCC Resource that is a Capacity Storage Resource or includes a Capacity 
Storage Resource component, PJM shall determine, by matching the physical characteristics of 
such resource with the definition of the ELCC Class, the type of ELCC Class of which such 
resource is a member; provided however, the Generation Capacity Resource Provider shall 
choose the specific ELCC Class within the type ELCC Class identified by PJM that corresponds 
to the chosen characteristic duration.  
 
If the Generation Capacity Resource Provider fails to choose, PJM will choose a specific ELCC 
Class to assign to such resource.  The election of the specific ELCC Class corresponding to the 
chosen characteristic duration shall be for a term of five consecutive Delivery Years.  After such 
five Delivery Year period, a Generation Capacity Resource Provider may request a change in the 
ELCC Class, based on choosing a different characteristic duration, by submitting to the Office of 
the Interconnection a written request to switch ELCC Classes and provide documentation 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.1 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 3 
supporting such change.  A Generation Capacity Resource Provider must submit such a request, 
and supporting documentation, by August 15 prior to the calendar year for the RPM Auction in 
which the ELCC Resource intends to submit a Sell Offer or otherwise commit to provide 
capacity, except for Delivery Years prior to the 2025/2026 Delivery Year such required 
information must be provided to the Office of the Interconnection in accordance with the PJM 
Manuals.  The Office of the Interconnection shall provide no later than following November 15 
written notification to the Generation Capacity Resource Provider of its determination.  If the 
request is granted, the ELCC Resource shall be considered in the new ELCC Class starting with 
the next Delivery Year for which no RPM Auction has been conducted and for subsequent 
Delivery Years.  If the request is denied, the Office of the Interconnection shall include in the 
notice a written explanation for the denial. 
 
(6) Mixed-technology resources are composed of components with different generation 
technologies, at least one of which would be an ELCC Resource, behind a single Point of 
Interconnection.  For a mixed-technology resource composed of components that do not have 
significant interaction, the components are eligible to participate as separate resources. A mixed-
technology resource composed of components that have significant interaction must participate 
as a single Combination Resource (or, if the components would all be Variable Resources, then 
as a single Variable Resource).   
 
The Generation Capacity Resource Provider of a mixed-technology resource eligible to 
participate as either a single ELCC Resource or as multiple stand-alone resources shall elect, for 
a term of five consecutive Delivery Years, whether PJM is to model it as a single ELCC 
Resource or as multiple stand-alone resources.  After such five Delivery Year period, a 
Generation Capacity Resource Provider may request a change in such modelling approach by 
submitting to the Office of the Interconnection a written request to change the modelling 
approach and provide documentation supporting such change.  A Generation Capacity Resource 
Provider must submit such a request, and supporting documentation, by August 15 prior to the 
calendar year for the RPM Auction in which the ELCC Resource(s) intend(s) to submit a Sell 
Offer or otherwise commit to provide capacity, except for Delivery Years prior to the 2025/2026 
Delivery Year such required information must be provided to the Office of the Interconnection in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The Office of the Interconnection shall provide no later than 
following November 15 written notification to the Generation Capacity Resource Provider of its 
determination.  If the request is granted, the ELCC Resource(s) shall be modelled as requested 
starting with the next Delivery Year for which no RPM Auction has been conducted and for 
subsequent Delivery Years.  If the request is denied, the Office of the Interconnection shall 
include in the notice a written explanation for the denial. 
 
C.  Calculation of ELCC Portfolio UCAP 
 
The effective load carrying capability analysis shall identify a scenario in which the aggregate 
installed capacity “Y” of a group of Unlimited Resources with no outages yields the same annual 
loss of load expectation as the one produced by the scenario with all ELCC Resources that are 
expected to offer in a given RPM Auction, or otherwise provide capacity, in the Delivery Year 
being analyzed.  The ELCC Portfolio UCAP shall be the value “Y”. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.1 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 4 
D.  Allocation from ELCC Portfolio UCAP to ELCC Class UCAP  
 
The ELCC Portfolio UCAP shall be allocated, as specified in the PJM Manuals, to each ELCC 
Class UCAP according to:   
(1) The reliability value of the subject ELCC Class evaluated in the absence of other ELCC 
Classes, minus  
(2) a quantity that is proportional to the product of:  
(a) the difference between the reliability value of the subject ELCC Class when evaluated 
in the presence of the entire portfolio of ELCC Classes and the reliability value of the 
subject ELCC Class when evaluated in the absence of the other ELCC Classes, and  
(b) the difference between the total reliability value of all the ELCC Classes in the model 
when evaluated jointly and the sum of the reliability values determined individually for 
each ELCC Class by evaluating the subject ELCC Class in the absence of other ELCC 
Classes.      
E. Calculation of ELCC Class Rating 
 
(1)  The ELCC Class Rating of Variable Resources and Limited Duration Resources shall be 
the ratio of the applicable ELCC Class UCAP to the aggregate Effective Nameplate Capacity of 
the modeled ELCC Resources of that ELCC Class that are expected to offer in a given RPM 
Auction, or otherwise provide capacity, in the Delivery Year being analyzed.   
(2)  For Combination Resources, there shall be an ELCC Class Rating for each component.   
(i) For a Combination Resource with a Limited Duration Resource component and a 
Variable Resource component, the Limited Duration Resource component ELCC Class 
Rating shall be equal to the quotient of (1) the Combination Resource ELCC Class UCAP 
minus the [product of the Variable Resource ELCC Class Rating and the aggregate 
Effective Nameplate Capacity of all the Variable Resource components within the subject 
Combination Resource class] divided by (2) the aggregate equivalent Effective 
Nameplate Capacity of all the Limited Duration Resource components within the subject 
Combination Resource class, and the Variable Resource component ELCC Class Rating 
shall be equal to the ELCC Class Rating for the ELCC Class to which the Variable 
Resource component would belong if it were not a component of the Combination 
Resource. 
(ii) For a Combination Resource with a Limited Duration Resource component and an 
Unlimited Resource component, the Limited Duration Resource component ELCC Class 
Rating shall be equal to the ELCC Class Rating for the ELCC Class to which the Limited 
Duration Resource component would belong if it were not a component of the 
Combination Resource, and the Unlimited Resource component would not have an ELCC 
Class Rating. 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.1 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 5 
(3) For ELCC Resources in the Hydropower with Non-Pumped Storage Class and in the 
Complex Hybrid Class, no ELCC Class Rating is determined.  A resource-specific ELCC rating 
is determined for each such resource. 
F. Calculation of Accredited UCAP and ELCC Resource Performance Adjustment  
 
(1) (a) For Variable Resources and Limited Duration Resources, Accredited UCAP values 
shall be equal to the product of: 
(i) the Effective Nameplate Capacity; 
(ii) the applicable ELCC Class Rating; and 
(iii) the ELCC Resource Performance Adjustment. 
(b) For Combination Resources, Accredited UCAP values shall be equal to the sum of the 
Accredited UCAP of each component, but not to exceed the Maximum Facility Output of 
the resource, where:   
(i) The value for a Variable Resource component shall be determined in 
accordance with subsection (a) above.   
(ii) The value for a Limited Duration Resource component shall be equal to the 
product of: 
(A) the Effective Nameplate Capacity determined for the Limited 
Duration Resource component; 
(B) [one minus the EFORd for the Limited Duration Resource 
component]; and 
(C) the applicable Limited Duration Resource component ELCC Class 
Rating as determined in Section E(2)(i). 
(iii) The value for an Unlimited Resource component shall be equal to the product 
of the installed capacity of the Unlimited Resource component and [one minus the 
EFORd for the Unlimited Resource component]. 
(iv) The Accredited UCAP for Hydropower With Non-Pumped Storage, and for 
each member of an ELCC Class whose members are so distinct from one another 
that a single ELCC Class Rating fails to capture their physical characteristics, 
shall be based on a resource-specific effective load carrying capability analysis 
based on the resource’s unique parameters. 
(2) The ELCC Resource Performance Adjustment shall be calculated according to the 
following methods, as further detailed in the PJM Manuals:  
 
(a) For a Variable Resource: based on a metric consisting of the average of (1) actual 
output during the 200 highest coincident peak load hours over the preceding ten years, 
regardless of the years in which they occur, and (2) actual output during the 200 highest 
coincident peak putative net load hours over the preceding ten years, regardless of the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.1 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 6 
years in which they occur, where putative net load is actual load minus the putative 
hourly output of Variable Resources based on the resource mix of the target year.  For 
Planned Resources or resources less than 10 years old, estimated hypothetical historical 
output will be used to develop this metric. For a given resource or component, the 
Performance Adjustment shall equal the ratio of such metric to the average (weighted by 
the Effective Nameplate Capacity) of such metrics for all units in the applicable Variable 
Resource ELCC Class.   
(b) For Limited Duration Resources: based on EFORd.  
(c) For Combination Resources with only an Unlimited Resource component and a 
Limited Duration Resource component: based on EFORd.  
(d) For Combination Resources with a Variable Resource component (except for 
Hydropower With Non-Pumped Storage): (1) based on the direct metered or estimated 
output of the Variable Resource component, which is then assessed according to the 
methodology described in subsection (a) above for Variable Resources and in accordance 
with the PJM Manuals; and (2) based on the EFORd that is applicable to the Limited 
Duration Resource component.  
(e) For Hydropower With Non-Pumped Storage and other Combination Resources that 
do not fall into the above categories: based on EFORd. 
G. Installed Capacity of ELCC Resources 
 
Rules and procedures for technically determining and demonstrating the installed capacity of 
ELCC Resources shall be developed by the Office of the Interconnection and maintained in the 
PJM Manuals.  The installed capacity of a Limited Duration Resource is based on the sustained 
level of output that the unit can provide and maintain over a continuous period, whereby the 
duration of that period matches the characteristic duration of the corresponding ELCC Class, 
with consideration given to ambient conditions expected to exist at the time of PJM system peak 
load, as described in the PJM Manuals.  The installed capacity of a Combination Resource (other 
than Hydropower With Non-Pumped Storage) is based on the lesser of the Maximum Facility 
Output or the sum of the equivalent Effective Nameplate Capacity values of the resource’s 
constituent components considered on a stand-alone basis. 
H. Details of the Effective Load Carrying Capability Methodology 
 
The effective load carrying capability analysis shall compare expected hourly load levels (based 
on historical weather) with the expected hourly output of the expected future resource mix in 
order to identify the relative resource adequacy value of the portfolio of all ELCC Classes, as 
well of each individual ELCC Class, compared to a group of Unlimited Resources with no 
outages.  In performing this analysis, the model inputs shall be scaled to meet the annual loss of 
load expectation of the Office of the Interconnection.  The effective load carrying capability 
analysis shall compare hourly values for: (i) expected load based on historical weather; (ii) 
expected Variable Resource output; and (iii) expected output of Limited Duration Resources and 
of Combination Resources as described below.  These expected quantities are based on actual 
values for load and actual and putative values for Variable Resource output (standalone or as a 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.1 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 7 
component of Combination Resources) after June 1, 2012 (inclusive) through the most recent 
Delivery Year for which complete data exist. For resources that have not existed each year since 
June 1, 2012, putative output is an estimate of the hourly output that resource would have 
produced in a historical hour if that resource had existed in that hour.  This putative output 
estimate is developed based on historical weather data consistent with the particular site 
conditions for each such resource in accordance with the PJM Manuals.  
The effective load carrying capability analysis shall simulate forced outages of Unlimited 
Resources based on actual historical data, and shall simulate the output of Limited Duration 
Resources and Combination Resources based on their Office of the Interconnection-validated 
parameters, including the putative output of the Variable Resource component of Combination 
Resources, as described above.  Forced outages of Limited Duration Resources and Combination 
Resources shall not be simulated in the effective load carrying capability analysis.  
The quantity of deployed resources studied in the analysis shall be based on resource deployment 
forecasts and, where applicable, on available information based on Sell Offers submitted in RPM 
Auctions or Fixed Resource Requirement plans for the applicable Delivery Year.  
The ELCC Class UCAP and other results of the effective load carrying capability analysis shall 
be based on the total Effective UCAP of the ELCC Class as a whole.  
The ELCC Class UCAP and corresponding ELCC Class Rating values may increase or decrease 
from year to year as the expected resource mix and load shape change.  
Energy Resources are not included in the effective load carrying capability analysis.  Generating 
units that are expected to only offer or otherwise provide a portion of their Accredited UCAP for 
that Delivery Year are represented in the analysis in proportion to the expected quantity offered 
or delivered divided by the Accredited UCAP. 
I. Methodology to Simulate Output of Certain Resources in the Effective Load 
Carrying Capability Model 
 
The effective load carrying capability analysis shall simulate the output of Limited Duration 
Resources and Combination Resources based on their physical parameters, including limited 
storage capability, and shall simulate the deployment of Demand Resources.  The analysis shall 
simulate output from the subject Limited Duration Resources and Combination Resources in 
hours in which all output from Unlimited Resources and available output from Variable 
Resources is insufficient to meet load.  The output of the subject Limited Duration Resources 
and Combination Resources shall be simulated on an hour-by-hour basis in proportion to their 
Effective Nameplate Capacity without foresight to future hours.  The simulated deployment of 
Demand Resources shall be such that there is adequate Primary Reserves provided by economic 
resources, if sufficient simulated Demand Resources are available. Primary Reserves shall be 
assigned to generation resources in order to maximize simulated reliability, provided that 
assignments to Limited Duration Resources and Combination Resources shall be pro rata 
according to their Effective Nameplate Capacity.  Primary Reserves shall be exhausted prior to 
identifying a loss of load event in the analysis.  Energy Storage Resource charging is during 
hours with sufficient margin, including between daily peaks if necessary.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.1 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 8 
J. Administration of Effective Load Carrying Capability Analysis 
 
The Office of the Interconnection shall post final ELCC Class Rating values at least once per 
year in a report that also includes appropriate details regarding methodology and inputs.  The 
Office of the Interconnection shall post this report and shall communicate ELCC Resource 
Performance Adjustment values to applicable Generation Capacity Resource Providers no later 
than five months prior to the start of the target Delivery Year, as described in the PJM Manuals.  
Starting with the 2023/2024 Delivery Year, Accredited UCAP values for the applicable Delivery 
Year shall establish the maximum Unforced Capacity that an ELCC Resource can physically 
provide or offer to provide in the applicable Delivery Year.   
The Office of the Interconnection shall also post preliminary ELCC Class Rating values for nine 
subsequent Delivery Years.  For any Delivery Year for which a final ELCC Class Rating has not 
been posted and a preliminary ELCC Class Rating has been posted, the Accredited UCAP of an 
ELCC Resource for such Delivery Year shall be based on the most recent preliminary ELCC 
Class Rating value for that Delivery Year, together with the most recently calculated ELCC 
Resource Performance Adjustment value for that ELCC Resource.  Except to the extent specified 
above or otherwise specified, the preliminary ELCC Class Rating values for future years are 
non-binding and are only for indicative purposes.  A Generation Capacity Resource Provider can 
offer or provide capacity from an ELCC Resource that is not subject to a capacity market must 
offer obligation (as specified in Tariff, Attachment DD, Section 6.6) at a level less than the 
Accredited UCAP for such resource.   
In order to facilitate the effective load carrying capability analysis, the Generation Capacity 
Resource Provider of each ELCC Resource must submit to the Office of the Interconnection the 
required information as specified in the PJM Manuals by no later than August 15 prior to the 
calendar year for the RPM Auction in which the ELCC Resource intends to submit a Sell Offer 
or otherwise commit to provide capacity, except for Delivery Years prior to the 2026/2027 
Delivery Year such required information must be provided to the Office of the Interconnection in 
accordance with the PJM Manuals.  The required information may include relevant physical 
parameters, relevant historical data such as weather data and actual or estimated historical energy 
output, and documentation supporting such parameters and historical data.  The relevant physical 
parameters are those that are incorporated into the effective load carrying capability analysis.  
The parameters required for Hydropower With Non-Pumped Storage shall include Ordinary 
Water Storage and any applicable Exigent Water Storage.  Submitted parameters must indicate 
the expected duration for which any submitted physical parameters are valid. 
The Office of the Interconnection shall evaluate, validate, and approve the foregoing information 
in accordance with the process set forth in the PJM Manuals.  In evaluating the validity of 
submitted information, the Office of the Interconnection may assess the consistency of such 
information with observed conditions.  If the Office of the Interconnection observes that the 
information provided by the Generation Capacity Resource Provider of the ELCC Resource is 
inconsistent with observed conditions, the Office of the Interconnection will coordinate with the 
Generation Capacity Resource Provider of the ELCC Resource to understand the information 
and observed conditions before making a determination regarding the validity of the applicable 
parameters.  The Office of the Interconnection may engage the services of a consultant with 
technical expertise to evaluate the foregoing information.  

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 9.1 
Effective Date: 2/2/2026 - Docket #: ER26-284-000 - Page 9 
After the Office of the Interconnection has completed its evaluation of the foregoing information, 
the Office of the Interconnection shall notify the Generation Capacity Resource Provider in 
writing whether the submitted information is considered invalid by no later than September 1 
following the submission of the information. The Office of the Interconnection’s determination 
on the validity of the foregoing information shall continue for the applicable Delivery Year and, 
if requested, for such longer period as the Office of the Interconnection may determine is 
supported by the data.  
In the event that the Office of the Interconnection is unable to validate any of the required 
information, physical parameters, supporting documentation, or other related information 
submitted by the Generation Capacity Resource Provider of an ELCC Resource, then the Office 
of the Interconnection shall calculate Accredited UCAP values for that ELCC Resource based 
only on the validated information.  Such ELCC Resource shall not be permitted to offer or 
otherwise provide capacity above such Accredited UCAP values until the Office of the 
Interconnection determines new Accredited UCAP values for such resource. 
Generation Capacity Resource Providers of ELCC Resources that are hydropower plants with 
water storage must provide documentation to support the physical parameters provided for 
expected load carrying capability analysis modeling, as specified in the PJM Manuals. This 
documentation must: (a) support the plant’s physical capabilities; (b) demonstrate that the 
parameters do not violate any federal, state, river basin, or other applicable authority operating 
limitations of the plant; and (c) demonstrate full authorization from FERC, any river basin 
commissions, and any other applicable authorities to meet those capabilities. 
 
 

