Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1 --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1.F-FRR Daily 
Unforced Capacity Obligations  
Effective Date: 8/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2447-003 - Page 1 
F. FRR Daily Unforced Capacity Obligations and Deficiency Charges   
 
1. This subsection 1 is effective through the 2024/2025 Delivery Year.  For each billing 
month during a Delivery Year, the Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation of an FRR Entity shall 
be determined on a daily basis for each Zone as follows: 
 
Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation = [(OPL * Final Zonal FRR Scaling Factor) – Nominal 
PRD Value committed by the FRR Entity] * FPR  
 
where: 
 
OPL  = Obligation Peak Load, defined as: 
 
the daily summation of the weather-adjusted coincident summer peak, last preceding the 
Delivery Year, of the end-users in such Zone (net of operating Behind The Meter 
Generation, but not to be less than zero) for which such Party was responsible on that 
billing day, as determined in accordance with the procedures set forth in the PJM 
Manuals 
 
Final Zonal FRR Scaling Factor = FZPLDY/FZWNSP; 
 
FZPLDY = Final Zonal Peak Load Forecast for such Delivery Year; and 
 
FZWNSP = Zonal Weather-Normalized Peak Load for the summer concluding prior to the 
commencement of such Delivery Year. 
 
1A.  This subsection 1A is effective beginning with the 2025/2026 Delivery Year.  For each 
billing month during a Delivery Year, the Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation of an FRR Entity 
shall be determined on a daily basis for each Zone as follows: 
 
Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation = [(OPL * Final Zonal FRR Scaling Factor) – Nominal 
PRD Value committed by the FRR Entity] * FPR 
 
where: 
 
OPL = Obligation Peak Load, defined as: 
 
the daily summation of the weather-adjusted coincident summer peak, last preceding the 
Delivery Year, of the end-users in such Zone (net of operating Behind The Meter Generation, but 
not to be less than zero) for which such Party was responsible on that billing day, as determined 
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the PJM Manuals, and as adjusted further to 
include the Obligation Peak Load associated with any Load Adjustment that may be allocated to 
“zone/area”; 
 
Final Zonal FRR Scaling Factor = [FZPLDY - FZLA] / FZWNSP; 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1 --> RAA SCHEDULE 8.1.F-FRR Daily 
Unforced Capacity Obligations  
Effective Date: 8/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2447-003 - Page 2 
FZPLDY = Final Zonal Peak Load Forecast for such Delivery Year; and 
 
FZLA = Final Zonal MW quantity of Load Adjustment for such Delivery Year; and 
 
FZWNSP = Zonal Weather-Normalized Peak Load for the summer concluding prior to the 
commencement of such Delivery Year. 
 
2. An FRR Entity shall be assessed an FRR Capacity Deficiency Charge in each Zone 
addressed in such entity’s FRR Capacity Plan for each day during a Delivery Year that it fails to 
satisfy its Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation in each Zone.  Through the 2024/2025 Delivery 
Year, such FRR Capacity Deficiency Charge shall be in an amount equal to the deficiency below 
such FRR Entity’s Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation for such Zone times (1.20 times the 
Capacity Resource Clearing Price resulting from all RPM Auctions for such Delivery Year for 
the LDA encompassing such Zone, weight-averaged for the Delivery Year based on the prices 
established and quantities cleared in such auctions).  Effective with the 2025/2026 Delivery Year 
and subsequent Delivery Years, such FRR Capacity Deficiency Charge shall equal the deficiency 
below such FRR Entity’s Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation for such Zone times the price 
level corresponding to Point (1) of the Variable Resource Requirement curve, as provided in 
Tariff, Attachment DD, section 5.10(a)(i), for the Locational Deliverability Area encompassing 
the Zone of the FRR Entity.  
 
3. If an FRR Entity acquires load that is not included in the Preliminary Zonal Peak Load 
Forecast such acquired load shall be treated in the same manner as provided in Sections H.1 and 
H.2 of this Schedule. 
 
4. The shortages in meeting the minimum requirement within the constrained zones and the 
shortage in meeting the total obligation are first calculated. The shortage in the unconstrained 
area is calculated as the total shortage less shortages in constrained zones and excesses in 
constrained zones (the shortage is zero if this is a negative number). The Capacity Deficiency 
Charge is charged to the shortage in each zone and in the unconstrained area separately. This 
procedure is used to allow the use of capacity excesses from constrained zones to reduce 
shortage in the unconstrained area and to disallow the use of capacity excess from unconstrained 
area to reduce shortage in constrained zones. 
 
 
 

