Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8 
Effective Date: 8/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2447-003 - Page 1 
SCHEDULE 8 
 
DETERMINATION OF UNFORCED CAPACITY OBLIGATIONS 
 
A. For each billing month during a Delivery Year, the Daily Unforced Capacity 
Obligation of a Party that has not elected the FRR Alternative for such Delivery 
Year shall be determined on a daily basis for each Zone as follows: 
 
 Daily Unforced Capacity Obligation = OPL x Final Zonal RPM Scaling Factor x 
FPR 
 
 Where: 
 
OPL  = Obligation Peak Load, defined as the daily summation of the weather-
adjusted coincident summer peak, last preceding the Delivery Year, of the 
end-users in such Zone (net of operating Behind The Meter Generation, but 
not to be less than zero) for which such Party was responsible on that billing 
day, as determined in accordance with the procedures set forth in the PJM 
Manuals, and as adjusted further to include the Obligation Peak Load 
associated with any Load Adjustment that may be allocated to the Party  
 
Final Zonal RPM Scaling Factor = the factor determined as set forth in sections 
B and C of this Schedule 
 
FPR   = the Forecast Pool Requirement 
 
Netting of Behind the Meter Generation for a Party with regard to Non-Retail Behind the 
Meter Generation shall be subject to the following limitation: 
 
For the 2006/2007 Planning Period, 100 percent of the operating Non-Retail Behind the 
Meter Generation shall be netted, provided that the total amount of Non-Retail 
Behind the Meter Generation in the PJM Region does not exceed 1500 megawatts 
(“Non-Retail Threshold”).  For each Planning Period/Delivery Year thereafter, the 
Non-Retail threshold shall be proportionately increased based on load growth in the 
PJM Region but shall not be greater than 3000 megawatts.  Load growth shall be 
determined by the Office of the Interconnection based on the most recent forecasted 
weather-adjusted coincident summer peak for the PJM Region divided by the 
weather-adjusted coincident peak for the previous summer for the same area.  After 
the load growth factor is applied, the Non-Retail Threshold will be rounded up or 
down to the nearest whole megawatt and the rounded number shall be the Non-
Retail Threshold for the current Planning Period and the base amount for 
calculating the Non-Retail Threshold for the succeeding planning period.  If the 
Non-Retail Threshold is exceeded, the amount of operating Non-Retail Behind the 
Meter Generation that a Party may net shall be adjusted according to the following 
formula: 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8 
Effective Date: 8/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2447-003 - Page 2 
Party Netting Credit = (NRT/ PJM NRBTMG) * Party Operating NRBTMG 
 
Where:  NRBTMG is Non-Retail Behind the Meter Generation 
 
 NRT is the Non-Retail Threshold 
 
 PJM NRBTMG is the total amount of Non-Retail Behind the Meter Generation in 
the PJM Region 
 
The total amount of Non-Retail Behind the Meter Generation that is eligible for netting in 
the PJM Region is 3000 megawatts.  Once this 3000 megawatt limit is reached, any 
additional Non-Retail Behind the Meter Generation which operates in the PJM 
Region will be ineligible for netting under this section. 
 
In addition, the Party NRBTMG Netting Credit shall be adjusted pursuant to Schedule 16 
of this Agreement, if applicable. 
 
A Party shall be required to report to PJM such information as is required to facilitate the 
determination of its NRBTMG Netting Credit in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in the PJM Manuals.    
 
B. Following the Base Residual Auction for a Delivery Year, the Office of the 
Interconnection shall determine the Base Zonal RPM Scaling Factor and the Base 
Zonal Unforced Capacity Obligation for each Zone for such Delivery Year as 
follows: 
 
 
Base Zonal Unforced Capacity Obligation = (ZPLDY/RPLDY) * RUCO  
 
 and 
 
 Base Zonal RPM Scaling Factor  = Base Zonal Unforced Capacity Obligation / 
(Adjusted ZWNSP * FPR) 
 
Where: 
 
 ZPLDY = Preliminary Zonal Peak Load Forecast for such Delivery Year 
 
 RPLDY = RTO Preliminary Peak Load Forecast for such Delivery Year,  
 
 RUCO = the RTO Unforced Capacity Obligation satisfied in the Base Residual 
Auction for such Delivery Year,  
 
 FPR – the Forecast Pool Requirement, and,  
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8 
Effective Date: 8/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2447-003 - Page 3 
Adjusted ZWNSP = Adjusted Zonal Weather Normalized Summer Peak = ZWNSP 
+ [ZLA * (ZWNSP / (ZPLDY - ZLA))] 
 
Where: 
 
 ZWNSP = Zonal Weather-Normalized Summer Peak for the summer season 
concluding four years prior to the commencement of such Delivery Year, and,  
 
 ZLA = the total zonal MW quantity of Load Adjustment for such Delivery Year. 
 
 For purposes of such determination, PJM shall determine the Preliminary RTO 
Peak Load Forecast, and the Preliminary Zonal Peak Load Forecasts for each Zone, 
in accordance with the PJM Manuals for each Delivery Year no later than one 
month prior to the Base Residual Auction for such Delivery Year.  PJM shall 
determine the Updated  RTO and Zonal Peak Load Forecasts in accordance with 
the PJM Manuals for each Delivery Year no later than one month prior to each of 
the First, Second, and Third Incremental Auctions for such Delivery Year.  PJM 
shall determine the most recent Weather Normalized Summer Peak for each Zone 
no later than seven months prior to the start of the Delivery Year, and shall calculate 
the RTO Weather Normalized Summer Peak as the sum of the Weather Normalized 
Summer Peaks for all Zones.  In addition, for each Zone, PJM shall determine, as 
applicable, the Adjusted Zonal Weather Normalized Summer Peak as set forth in 
Section B of this Schedule, where the Obligation Peak Load associated with such 
Load Adjustment is included.  The Obligation Peak Load associated with such Load 
Adjustment MW will be calculated for each “zone/area” as determined by: 
 
 LAOPL = the Obligation Peak Load associated with the total MW quantity of Load 
Adjustment of a Zone or separate wholesale area within the zone for such Delivery 
Year = LAMW * (ZWNSP / (ZPLDY - ZLA)) 
 
 Where: 
 
 LAMW = the total MW quantity of Load Adjustment of a Zone or of a separate 
wholesale area within the Zone for the relevant Delivery Year,  
 
 ZWNSP = Zonal Weather-Normalized Summer Peak from most recent summer 
season,  
 
 ZPLDY = Zonal Peak Load Forecast for such Delivery Year, and,  
 
 ZLA = the total zonal MW quantity of Load Adjustment for such Delivery Year. 
 
 C. This subsection C is effective through the end of the 2024/2025 Delivery Year.  The 
Final RTO Unforced Capacity Obligation for a Delivery Year shall be equal to the 
sum of the unforced capacity obligations satisfied through the Base Residual 
Auction and the First, Second, Third, and any Conditional Incremental Auctions 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA SCHEDULE 8 
Effective Date: 8/31/2024 - Docket #: ER24-2447-003 - Page 4 
for such Delivery Year.  The unforced capacity obligation satisfied in an 
Incremental Auction may be negative if capacity is decommitted in such auction.  
The Final Zonal Unforced Capacity Obligation for a Zone shall be equal to such 
Zone’s pro rata share of the Final RTO Unforced Capacity Obligation for the 
Delivery Year based on the Final Zonal Peak Load Forecast made one month prior 
to the Third Incremental Auction.  The Final Zonal RPM Scaling Factor shall be 
equal to the Final Zonal Unforced Capacity Obligation divided by (FPR times the 
Zonal Weather Normalized Summer Peak for the summer concluding prior to the 
commencement of such Delivery Year). 
 
C1. This subsection C1 is effective beginning with the 2025/2026 Delivery Year.  The 
Final RTO Unforced Capacity Obligation for a Delivery Year shall be equal to the 
sum of the unforced capacity obligations satisfied through the Base Residual 
Auction and the First, Second, Third, and any Conditional Incremental Auctions 
for such Delivery Year.  The unforced capacity obligation satisfied in an 
Incremental Auction may be negative if capacity is de-committed in such auction.  
The Final Zonal Unforced Capacity Obligation for a Zone shall be equal to such 
Zone’s pro rata share of the Final RTO Unforced Capacity Obligation for the 
Delivery Year based on the Final Zonal Peak Load Forecast made one month prior 
to the Third Incremental Auction.  The Final Zonal RPM Scaling Factor shall be 
equal to the Final Zonal Unforced Capacity Obligation divided by (FPR times the 
Adjusted Zonal Weather Normalized Summer Peak of such Delivery Year). 
 
D. 1. No later than five months prior to the start of each Delivery Year, the 
Electric Distributor for a Zone shall allocate the most recent Zonal Weather 
Normalized Summer Peak for such Zone to each “zone/area” in the Zone to 
determine the Obligation Peak Load for each “zone/area” in such Zone. 
 
2. During the Delivery Year, no later than 36 hours prior to the start of each Operating 
Day, the Electric Distributor shall provide to PJM for each Party to this Agreement 
serving load in such Electric Distributor’s Zone the Obligation Peak Load for all 
end-use customers served by such Party in such Zone.  The Electric Distributor may 
submit corrections to the Obligation Peak Load data up to 12:00PM Eastern 
Prevailing Time of the next Business Day following the Operating Day. 
 
3. For purposes of such allocations, the daily sum of the Obligation Peak Loads of all 
Parties serving load in a given “zone/area” within the Zone must equal the 
Obligation Peak Load established for that “zone/area,” including any Load 
Adjustment MW, determined as set forth in section B above. 
 

