Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA Schedule 8.1-Appendix 2A-APCO Capacity Comp. 
Protocols 
Effective Date: 7/9/2013 - Docket #: ER13-539-001 - Page 1 
 
Schedule 8.1 – Appendix 2A 
 
Appalachian Power Company (APCO) 
 
CAPACITY COMPENSATION FORMULA RATE IMPLEMENTATION 
PROTOCOLS 
 
Definitions 
 
The definitions and provisions contained in this Appendix 2A shall be applicable only to the 
provisions of Schedule 8.1 - Appendix 2A, unless otherwise specified. 
 
“Capacity Rate” means the result produced by populating the Capacity Compensation Formula 
Rate Template with data to calculate the Fixed Resource Requirement capacity rate for load 
served by Virginia Competitive Service Providers (“CSPs”). 
 
“Annual Review Procedures” means the procedures pursuant to which an Interested Party may 
review the Annual Update and notify APCO of any specific challenges to the Annual Update. 
 
“Annual Update” means the posting and informational filing submitted by APCO on or before 
May 25 of each year that sets forth the capacity rate for the subsequent Rate Year. 
 
“Capacity Compensation Formula Rate Template” means the collection of formulae, and 
worksheets, unpopulated with any data, to be included as Schedule 8.1 – Appendix 2B under 
Section D.8 of Schedule 8.1 of the PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (“PJM”) Reliability Assurance 
Agreement (“RAA”). 
 
“Interested Party” means any person or entity having standing under Section 206 of the Federal 
Power Act (“FPA”) with respect to the Annual Update. 
 
“Material Changes” means (i) material changes in APCO’s accounting policies and practices, 
(ii) changes in FERC’s Uniform System of Accounts (“USofA”), (iii) changes in FERC Form 
No. 1 reporting requirements as applicable, or (iv) changes in the FERC’s accounting policies 
and practices, which change causes a result under the Formula Rate template to be different from the result under 
the Formula Rate Template as calculated without such change. 
 
“Partial Rate Year” means the period February 9, 2013 through May 31, 2013. 
 
“Partial Rate Year Effective Date” means February 9, 2013. 
 
“Protocols” means these Capacity Compensation Formula Rate Implementation Protocols. 
 
“Publication Date” means the date on which the Annual Update is posted under the provisions of 
Section 1 below. 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA Schedule 8.1-Appendix 2A-APCO Capacity Comp. 
Protocols 
Effective Date: 7/9/2013 - Docket #: ER13-539-001 - Page 2 
“Rate Year” means the twelve consecutive month period that begins on June 1 and continues 
through May 31 of the subsequent calendar year. 
 
“Review Period” means the period during which Interested Parties may review the calculations 
in the Annual Update as provided in Section 2 below. 
 
Section 1 Annual Updates 
 
a. The Capacity Rate for the Partial Rate Year shall become effective on the Partial 
Rate Year Effective Date and such Capacity Rate shall not be subject to the Protocols.  
Beginning June 1, 2013, the Capacity Rate shall be revised in accordance with the 
Capacity Compensation Formula Rate Template, and the Annual Update for the Rate 
Year beginning on June 1, 2013, and all subsequent Rate Years, shall be fully subject 
to the Protocols. 
 
b. On or before May 25 of 2013 and each year thereafter, APCO shall recalculate its 
Capacity Rate, producing the Annual Update for the upcoming Rate Year, and shall 
post such Annual Update, in both PDF and working Excel spreadsheet versions, on 
PJM’s Internet website.  In addition, APCO shall submit such Annual Update as an 
informational filing with FERC.  APCO will also post such Annual Update on 
APCO’s Internet website at 
https://www.appalachianpower.com/service/choice/ 
 
c. The date as provided in Section 1.b shall be that Rate Year’s Publication Date. 
 
d.   If the date for making the Annual Update posting/filing should fall on a weekend 
or a holiday recognized by the FERC, then the posting/filing shall be due on the next 
business day. 
 
e. The Annual Update shall include a workable Excel file or files containing the 
data-populated Formula Rate Template as well as supporting calculations and 
workpapers that demonstrate and explain information not otherwise set out in 
APCO’s FERC Form No. 1 reports. 1   
 
1  It is the intent that each input to the Formula Rate Template will be either taken directly 
from the FERC Form No. 1 or reconcilable to the FERC Form No. 1 by the application of 
clearly identified and supported information. Where the reconciliation is provided 
through a worksheet appurtenant to the filed Formula Rate Template, the inputs to the 
worksheet will meet this transparency standard, and doing so will satisfy this 
transparency requirement for the amounts that are output from the worksheet and input to 
the main body of the Formula Rate Template. 
 
 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA Schedule 8.1-Appendix 2A-APCO Capacity Comp. 
Protocols 
Effective Date: 7/9/2013 - Docket #: ER13-539-001 - Page 3 
 
f.   The Annual Update for the Rate Year: 
 
(i) Shall, to the extent specified in the Formula Rate Template, be based upon 
prudently incurred costs; the data for such prudently incurred costs will be 
taken from APCO’s FERC Form No. 1 for the most recent calendar year, and 
will be based upon the books and records of APCO (all of the foregoing data, 
books, and records maintained consistent with the USofA and FERC 
accounting policies, practices, and procedures); 
 
(ii) Shall be populated, in accordance with FERC’s orders establishing 
generally applicable ratemaking policies and the Formula Rate Template, with 
the data identified above;  
 
(iii) Shall be subject to the Annual Review Procedures set forth in these 
Protocols; and 
 
(iv) Shall disclose any change in accounting during the rate period that affects 
inputs to the formula rate or the resulting charges billed under the formula rate 
and, in particular, include the following: 
 
(a) Disclose: (1) the initial implementation of an accounting standard 
or policy; (2) the initial implementation of accounting practices for 
unusual or unconventional items where the Commission has not 
provided specific accounting direction; (3) corrections of errors and prior 
period adjustments; (4) the implementation of new estimation methods 
or policies that change prior estimates; and (5) changes to income tax 
elections. 
 
(b) Identify items included in the formula rate at an amount other than 
on a historical cost basis, e.g., fair value adjustments.  
 
(c) Identify any reorganization or merger transaction and explain the 
effect of the accounting for such transactions on inputs to the formula 
rate. 
 
(d) To the extent these accounting changes and other matters affect 
APCO’s inputs to its formula rate, APCO will provide a narrative 
explanation of how such changes affect those items on charges billed 
under the formula rate.  
 
g. Formula Rate Inputs 
 
(i) Stated inputs to the Formula Rate Template: rate of return on common 
equity; Post Employment Benefits other Than Pensions (“PBOPs”); and 
depreciation and amortization rates shall be stated values to be used in the 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA Schedule 8.1-Appendix 2A-APCO Capacity Comp. 
Protocols 
Effective Date: 7/9/2013 - Docket #: ER13-539-001 - Page 4 
Formula Rate Template until changed pursuant to an FPA Section 205 or 206 
filing. 
 
(ii) Cost of Service elements recorded in accounts not specifically provided 
for in the Capacity Rate: any cost, expense or other element of the cost of 
providing service not specifically provided for shall not be recoverable under 
the Formula Rate until filed for pursuant to FPA Section 205, accepted by 
FERC and, if otherwise required, a determination has been made by the Office 
of the Chief Accountant regarding the journal entries for the transaction. 
 
(iii)  The Formula Rate Template refers to certain pages and line numbers 
found in APCO’s FERC Form 1 used for reporting calendar year 2011 data.  
From time to time, FERC may make changes in the format of the FERC Form 
1, and such changes may result in certain page and line references included in 
Formula Rate Template being rendered inaccurate.  To the extent that only 
formatting changes are involved and there is no substantive change, the 
Formula Rate Template shall be interpreted as if the page and line references 
contained therein are references to the pages and lines contained in the current 
FERC Form 1 on which can be found the data described on the pages and 
lines of the prior FERC Form 1.  Such changes in references shall be noted 
and new references stated in the formula and submitted to FERC in a limited 
Section 205 filing. 
 
Section 2 Annual Review Procedures 
 
Each Annual Update shall be subject to the following review procedures (“Annual 
Review Procedures”): 
 
a. No later than ten (10) days after the Publication Date, APCO will post the Annual 
Update on its website dedicated to Virginia Competitive Service Providers (“CSPs”) 
and inform CSPs that they will have ten (10) days to request that APCO schedule an 
open meeting to discuss the Annual Update.  If APCO receives one or more requests 
within such 10-day period, APCO will schedule an open meeting within thirty (30) 
days of such request(s).  APCO shall provide at the meeting an item-by-item 
description of the major cost drivers for the change in rates, and an opportunity to 
discuss these items.   
 
b. Interested Parties shall have up to one hundred ten (110) days after the 
Publication Date (“Review Period”) (unless such period is extended with the written 
consent of APCO) to review the calculations and to notify APCO in writing of any 
specific challenges, including challenges related to any Material Changes, to the 
application of the Formula Rate in an Annual Update (“Preliminary Challenge”).  
 
c. Interested Parties shall have the right to serve reasonable information requests on 
APCO up to ninety (90) days after the Publication Date. Such information requests 
shall be limited to what is necessary to determine: (i) whether APCO has properly 
calculated the Annual Update under review (including any corrections pursuant to 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA Schedule 8.1-Appendix 2A-APCO Capacity Comp. 
Protocols 
Effective Date: 7/9/2013 - Docket #: ER13-539-001 - Page 5 
Section 4); (ii) whether APCO has correctly applied the Formula Rate Template; 
(iii) whether the inputs to the Formula Rate Template are appropriate costs and 
revenue credits; and (iv) whether the inputs are just and reasonable.  Interested 
Persons can make information requests regarding allocation methodologies, including 
inter-corporate cost allocation methodologies, used to derive the inputs.  Interested 
Parties may request accounting practices to the extent they impact the determination 
of the annual revenue requirement.  They may also request information on 
procurement methods and cost control methodologies used by APCO.   
 
d. APCO shall make a good faith effort to respond to information requests pertaining 
to the Annual Update within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of such requests.  
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these Protocols, with respect to 
any information requests received by APCO up to seventy-five (75) days after the 
Publication Date for which APCO is unable to provide a response before the end of 
the Review Period, the Review Period shall be extended day-for-day until APCO’s 
response is provided. 
 
e. Preliminary or Formal Challenges related to Material Changes are not intended to 
serve as a means of pursuing other objections to the Annual Update.  Failure to make 
a Preliminary Challenge or Formal Challenge with respect to an Annual Update shall 
preclude use of these procedures with respect to that Annual Update, but shall not 
preclude a subsequent Preliminary Challenge or Formal Challenge related to a 
subsequent Annual Update to the extent such challenge affects the subsequent Annual 
Update. 
 
f. In any proceeding initiated to address a Preliminary or Formal Challenge or sua 
sponte by FERC, a party or parties seeking to modify the Formula Rate Template in 
any respect shall bear the applicable burden under the Federal Power Act (“FPA”).  
Nothing in the protocols changes the burden of proof imposed under the FPA. 
 
 
Section 3 Resolution of Challenges 
 
a. If APCO and any Interested Parties have not resolved any Preliminary Challenge 
to the Annual Update within twenty-one (21) days after the Review Period ends, an 
Interested Party shall have an additional twenty-one (21) days (unless such period is 
extended with the written consent of APCO to continue efforts to resolve the 
Preliminary Challenge) to submit a written Formal Challenge to FERC, pursuant to 
18 C.F.R. § 385.206, which shall be served on APCO by electronic service on the 
date of such filing (“Formal Challenge”).  However, there shall be no need to make a 
Formal Challenge or to await conclusion of the time periods in Section 2 if FERC 
already has initiated a proceeding to consider the Annual Update. 
 
b. Parties shall make a good faith effort to raise all issues in a Preliminary Challenge 
prior to filing a Formal Challenge; provided, however, that a Preliminary Challenge 
shall not be a prerequisite for bringing a Formal Challenge.  Failure to notify APCO 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA Schedule 8.1-Appendix 2A-APCO Capacity Comp. 
Protocols 
Effective Date: 7/9/2013 - Docket #: ER13-539-001 - Page 6 
of an issue with respect to an Annual Update shall not preclude an Interested Party 
from pursuing such issue in a Preliminary Challenge or Formal Challenge. 
 
c. All information and correspondence produced pursuant to these Protocols may be 
included in any Formal Challenge, in any other proceeding concerning the Formula 
Rate initiated at FERC pursuant to the FPA, or in any proceeding before any court to 
review a FERC decision. 
 
d. Any response by APCO to a Formal Challenge must be submitted to FERC within 
twenty (20) days of the date of the filing of the Formal Challenge, and shall be served 
on the filing party or parties by electronic service on the date of such filing. 
 
e. APCO shall bear the burden of proving that it has reasonably applied the terms of 
the Formula Rate Template, and the applicable procedures in these Protocols, and of 
proving that it has properly calculated the challenged Annual Update pursuant to the 
Formula Rate Template, and of proving it has reasonably adopted and applied any 
Material Changes in that year’s Annual Update. 
 
f. These Protocols in no way limit the rights of APCO or any Interested Party to 
initiate a proceeding at FERC at any time with respect to the Formula Rate Template 
or any Annual Update consistent with the party’s full rights under the FPA, including 
Sections 205, 206 and 306, and FERC’s regulations. 
 
g. It is recognized that resolution of Formal Challenges concerning Material 
Changes may necessitate adjustments to the Formula Rate input data for the 
applicable Annual Update, or changes to the Formula Rate Template to ensure that 
the Formula Rate Template continues to operate in a manner that is just, reasonable, 
and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. 
 
Section 4 Changes to Annual Informational Filings 
 
a. Notice.  If any changes are required to be made to the Annual Update, whether 
because of changes made under these Protocols, due to revisions made to a prior 
year’s FERC Form No. 1 report of APCO, or input data used for a Rate Year that 
would have affected the Annual Update for that Rate Year, or as the result of any 
FERC proceeding to consider a prior year’s Annual Update, APCO shall promptly 
notify the Interested Parties, file a correction to the Annual Update with FERC as an 
amended informational filing describing the change(s) and the cost impact. 
 
b.  Necessary Changes When Made.  Except as provided for below in Section 4.c, any 
corrections or revisions to the inputs and resulting rates that are required as a result of 
a change reported in Section 4.a shall be reflected in the next Annual Update, 
including any resulting refunds or surcharges for corrected past charges which shall 
be made with interest as per section 35.19a of the Commission’s regulations. 
 
c. Changes Made During the Review Period.  Unless otherwise agreed by APCO 
and the Interested Parties, a correction made under Section 4.a prior to the time 

Intra-PJM Tariffs --> RELIABILITY ASSURANCE AGREEMENT --> RAA Schedule 8.1-Appendix 2A-APCO Capacity Comp. 
Protocols 
Effective Date: 7/9/2013 - Docket #: ER13-539-001 - Page 7 
determined for the filing of a Formal Challenge shall reset the performance dates 
under Sections 2 and 3 of these Protocols for Interested Parties to review the Annual 
Update, and the revised dates shall run from the posting date(s) for each of the 
corrections.  The scope of the review of the Annual Update shall then be limited to 
the aspects of the Formula Rate Template affected by the corrections. 

